Markets are becoming a lot less
responsive to these headlines.
>> There is still a lot of hope and
optimism in this market. [music]
>> time for a bounce. There's a broadening
happening across markets.
>> The market is overexuberant in terms of
a fast fix to all of this.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning to our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, approaching a ceasefire
deadline. The White House promising
there will be no extensions as Fed chair
nominee Kevin Walsh is facing a hearing
on Capitol Hill. Apple's longtime CEO
Tim [music] Cook is calling time on a
15-year run. That stock inching lower
this morning. Being pretty consistent
though, the person who is pegged to be
the next [music] CEO, John Turnus, is
somebody who's been at the company for
25 years and is a hardware guy. This is
what a lot of people keep saying. On one
hand, you could say that Tim Cook has
been very much a software man, looking
to bring things into the new world when
it comes to [music] some of the services
in the platform. This is hardware. This
is a question of how Apple will adapt to
AI at a time when they have fallen
behind and chosen to do so as they watch
other peers try to get ahead.
>> I feel like Tim Cook is calling
time-ish. He's still going to be the
executive chairman and his portfolio
might be the most difficult and
important for any executive right now
operating in the United States and
that's going to be maintaining this
relationship with the White House and
President Trump and also maintaining the
relationship when it comes to Beijing. I
have seen tremendous growth. Let's give
the guy credit. What a 15-year stretch.
Tremendous growth. Supply chain master.
Yes, some high-profile failures along
the way. The Vision Pro, not a fantastic
success, but some tremendous success
along the way. The buyback king. I think
we have to remember that he is the king
of buybacks. The capital return program
that's generated [music] what, 2,000%
gains on this stock over that period.
Phenomenal. And something that a lot of
people held,
>> [music]
>> at the same time a lot of criticism
about not being forward-looking enough.
At the same time you did have the
AirPods, you did have the Apple Watch,
you had some products, but otherwise it
still is [music] very much the iPhone.
That is the core of the business. Key
question for John Thain is what do you
do [music] next given the fact that you
need to have something new to really
drive and propel gains in this company.
>> That's my question, too. Is this a
continuity candidate? [music] And this
is a moment where you want a continuity
CEO at the top of Apple when many people
are looking for an era of innovation.
That's not the only thing we're watching
for later on this morning, of course,
10:00 a.m. Eastern time will be focused
[music] on this. Kevin Warsh testimony
on Capitol Hill. Politico leaking some
of that testimony just yesterday. Some
interesting highlights came out of that.
A commitment [music] to independence.
And I took away the following. The Fed's
got to own it. The Fed has to own
inflation. It's their job. It's their
responsibility. [music] And I think he's
going to be pushing that line pretty
hard later this morning.
>> Which raises this issue. Are people
expecting an overly dovish [music] Kevin
Warsh as Fed chair? Are they going to be
expecting him to push on a string that
he's not going to push on because
ultimately they've got to get inflation
back in the bottle. And at this point
we've been talking about this. Treasury
Secretary Scott Garrett and talking
about how this might not be the time to
cut rates. Essentially giving a green
light to whoever might come in next,
Kevin Warsh, to essentially hold tight
even in the mid a lot of pressure from
President Trump.
>> I think it was a little bit of a
pushback at the current Federal Reserve
and J. Powell. Inflation is a choice.
Well, this Federal Reserve has made
inflation a choice that they're
basically going to accept [music] 3% as
the target. When it comes to this
hearing though, it is going to be box
office. I love this remember of of the
Senate Banking Committee, or Senator
John Kennedy. The president's current
nominee will
>> [music]
>> be ultimately confirmed. In what decade
that happens, I'm not sure.
>> Yeah, the timeline is tremendously
uncertain. I've used that word a few
times already this morning, but it's
true. I've got no idea when he gets
appointed. I've got no idea who's at the
Federal Reserve by by time he gets to
the end of May. And I imagine that's a
key question for a lot of market
participants going into this, Eric. Can
Kevin Warsh
well, sweet his way into Tom Tillis's
heart to overturn his commitment [music]
to not allow any candidate to go through
before the inquiry into the Federal
Reserve is resolved. Ultimately, that's
the key question. Can he sort of sweet
talk his way? Can he charm his way into
Tom Tillis's heart? The answer probably
is no. I'm sure that he's watching and
I'm sure that he would say, "It's not
about charming." Senator Tom Tillis
likes Kevin Warsh. He's excited about
Kevin Warsh being the next Fed chair.
His issue is the DOJ investigation.
[music] I think the real question is
will the president just drop this
investigation, take the offer? The
president can still say he doesn't like
what the Federal Reserve did, but does
it mean it's criminal? And that's the
[music] question. 4:00 a.m. is when that
testimony just around the corner.
Looking forward to that hearing in front
of the Senate Banking Committee. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Tom
Forte of Maxim Group as Apple names its
[music] next CEO. Chris Ron of Strategas
ahead of Kevin Warsh's confirmation
hearing and Steve Yates of the Heritage
Foundation as President Trump signals no
ceasefire extension with Iran. We begin
this hour with our top story. Apple's
Tim Cook stepping down following 15
years at the helm, naming John Turnus as
its next leader. Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow
tracking the story and joins us now for
more. Good morning, Ed. All change at
the top of Apple. All change, but not
until September 1st. That's when it
becomes effective. And as you guys know,
Tim Cook becomes executive chairman
where he probably has a more focused
brief. You know, talking to policy
makers, it will include supply chain.
And in his internal memo to staff, you
know, he was really emphasizing, "I'm
not going anywhere." You know, that that
he will continue to play a strategy role
from that executive chair position. All
things can be true. It's interesting
what Lisa was talking about. He's both
the continuity candidate as heir
apparent is John Turnus, as well as the
hope internally that he will do things
differently to Tim Cook. You know, John
Turnus, um he's a hardware guy. He's an
engineer and he's a product guy, but he
has been a very key voice internally on
some of the projects that have not
worked. Apple car, Vision Pro, voicing
concern that those won't go anywhere in
the long term. He's also been a key
voice on some of the bigger swings like
the MacBook Neo, entering the lower
price point category, disrupting that
laptop market where there are a number
of incumbent Chinese players. So, this
is really interesting. The question
comes back to AI, of course. What we
know is that John Ternus has been a a
big advocate of using AI internally. We
don't have as good a read on how AI is
going to actually show up in the iPhone,
and that's been the story for Apple for
a long time. But John, I think you
noticed something really important,
which is your audience, be they, you
know, portfolio manager or their
clients, will thank Tim Cook for the
15-year era that he was CEO, the
shareholder returns and performance of
the stock and the company's top and
bottom line incredible. Phenomenal
gains. Ed, looking forward to your
coverage throughout this morning. Ed
Ludlow there, host of Bloomberg
Technology. Catch Ed throughout this
morning. Tom Forte of Maxim Group with
this to say, "The naming of Mr. Ternus
as CEO is an indication that Apple still
considers itself as a hardware-first
company. We look to see how well Apple
capitalizes on AI." Tom, join us now for
more. Tom, welcome to the program. Is
this a continuity candidate, and is that
what this company needs?
Uh this is absolutely a continuity
candidate, as you're referring to it. I
believe Tim Cook handpicked handpicked
John Ternus to succeed him as Steve Jobs
handpicked Tim Cook to proceed him
beforehand.
Uh does Apple need a continuity
candidate? So, I think that we'll be
measuring John Ternus's tenure at Apple
on the company's ability to capitalize
on AI. How long can he extend the iPhone
life cycle? It's already 19 years. And
will he be more like Steve Jobs and less
like Tim Cook and be able to determine
what the next device the consumers want
that they may not know that they want.
Smart glasses, foldable iPhones. Will
they give the car another attempt? Uh
will they work on more connected home
devices?
So, those are the things we'll be
measuring John's performance in the
future. Tom, why now? Why is Tim Cook
stepping down at a time of tumult ahead
of what could be the biggest
revolutionary aspect or evolution in
technology?
I think you could argue, Lisa, that why
now, uh, Tim Cook has got the company in
an amazing position when you think of
the challenges it faces. He's
diversified the supply chain so they're
less dependent on China. They now rely
on China and India and Vietnam. At least
on a near-term basis, he's addressed the
AI challenges by having a strategic
partnership with Google to ultimately
enable them to enhance Siri. And he
hands over a very strong company when
you think about that 20% growth in
iPhone revenue in the December quarter.
So, I think why now, the he's handing
off a very strong Apple to John and he's
addressed a lot of the near-term
challenges for the company.
One thing, Tom, that we've been noting
for a number of months now is that the
other big tech companies have all been
investing hundreds of billions of
dollars into the tech evolution. Apple's
been relatively, uh, investment-light.
They have kept their kind of
capital-light,
uh, profile. Do you expect that to
change as Apple tries to be more
forward-looking and come up with new
products?
I don't expect it to change unless John
pivots the strategy and Apple changes
its emphasis on AI to focus perhaps on
services or things where they need more
raw compute power. Uh, when you think of
the heavy investment spend, a lot of
it's by the hyperscalers, Amazon,
Google, Microsoft, and a lot of it's
come from Meta Platforms. Uh, so then
the question is for John Ternus, how
long can Apple maintain this hybrid
model, uh, called capital-light relative
to its peers in AI? And I would say it
depends on how much raw compute power he
intends and if he wants to offer AI as
more of a services including it to the
enterprise level. How much bandwidth
will Turnus actually have with, of
course, still having Tim Cook as the
executive chairman?
I think he's going to have tremendous
bandwidth. So, when you think about Tim
Cook's
success at Apple, he's managed the
governments of US and China beautifully.
He was a steady hand following the
untimely passing of Steve Jobs in 2011.
So, I think that Tim Cook as executive
chairman will be very supportive to
John, but ultimately be John's vision
for the future that I think drives Apple
shares from here. And tell me just
finally, Tim Cook, I was going through
the numbers yesterday, just how much
stock has he bought back over the last
15 years? Just how much has that company
changed from that vantage point?
I don't think they ever, you know,
achieved cash flow neutrality or
that sort of thing. But, yes, he he has
done an amazing job of returning that
tremendous free cash flow to
shareholders, initiating the dividend,
buying back stock. I like to think of
the 4 trillion from 350 billion
performance in his tenure, which is
truly superb. Crazy. Tom, thank you,
Sam. Tom Forte there of Maxim Group. To
call him the king of capital returns is
not meant to be derogatory. Just a
statement of fact. I think it's north of
$600 billion
in buybacks under Tim Cook. I don't
think any stock investor was personally
offended when you said that. I think
that a lot of people were very happy.
>> his tenure just to to capital returns
instead of all the other things.
>> In fairness, some people said that he
was kind of a continuity character and
some people said he wasn't innovative
enough. He didn't take Apple into the
new era to be the trifold kind of type
of
type of iPhone or anything like that
ahead of say Samsung. Key question is
will John Turnus be that and will that
be necessary because they've been
rewarded, frankly, for not making the
same investments that some of the other
big tech companies have.
>> Apple in the pre-market down by 0.3%. I
think that speaks to the continuity that
so many people are talking about at the
moment. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohai Ra has more. Hi Yohai Ra.
>> Hi John. Sticking with that top story,
Apple naming a new CEO. Hardware boss
John Ternus will replace Tim Cook on
September 1st. Ternus has led the
hardware engineering division [music]
since 2021 and sources say he's a strong
believer in AI where Apple of course has
struggled to make an impact. [music]
Kevin Warsh's confirmation hearing is
set for 10:00 a.m. today. President
Trump's pick [music] to be the next Fed
chair will face questions about central
bank independence and his rate outlook.
Lawmakers may also ask about his
personal wealth which includes assets
worth at least $192 million.
And President Donald Trump signaling he
is unlikely to extend a ceasefire with
Iran that's set to expire on Wednesday.
[music] The president telling Bloomberg
he is quote not going to be rushed into
making a bad deal. Vice President J.D.
Vance heading to Pakistan [music] to
resume negotiations while Iran has yet
to confirm if it will participate in
those peace talks this week. [music]
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohai Ra, thank you. More from Yohai Ra
later this hour. Up next on the program,
standing in the way of the next Fed
chair.
I have no intention allowing any Fed
board nominee to move forward out of
committee and to be confirmed until this
matter is settled. Look, this is
foundational to Fed independence. Up
next we'll catch up with Chris Ferraro
of Strategas live from New York City
[music] this morning. Good morning.
8:30 Eastern time more economic data at
8:30 we should get US retail sales after
the closing [music] bell you'll hear
from United Airlines. The airline is
very much in focus given the pressure on
them over the last 2 months or so. Then
this at 10:00 [music] a.m. Eastern time
Kevin Warsh in front of the Senate
Banking Committee on Capitol Hill.
Looking forward to that. The scores
going into it look like this. Equity
futures bouncing back higher by third of
1% on the S&P after snapping a five-day
winning streak on the S&P 500. We
snapped a 13-day stretch of gains on the
Nasdaq 100 yesterday this morning up by
0.4.
Under Savannah's this morning standing
[music] in the way of the next Fed
chair.
The internal inquiry and the
investigation was a farce to try and get
the current chair to step aside. I have
no intention allowing any Fed board
nominee to move forward out of committee
and to be confirmed until this matter is
settled. Look, this is foundational to
Fed independence and I for one I'm going
to stand on the side of certainty and
Fed independence is what delivers
certainty in our markets. So here's the
nice assist morning Fed chair nominee
Kevin Warsh heading to Capitol Hill for
a confirmation hearing before the
Senate. Senator Tom Tillis still vowing
to block the nomination until the
Justice Department drops its probe into
the central bank. Taylor Kendall has
more. Good morning Taylor.
Hey John, good morning. Well, I caught
up with a senior aide to Tom Tillis
yesterday who told me that the senator's
position has not changed and he will
continue to block Warsh's nomination
from advancing to the full floor until
the legal matter against Fed chair
Jerome Powell is resolved. Though this
aide says that Tillis wants to vote for
Warsh as this confirmation hearing gets
underway, but he really can make good on
his threats to block the nominee
considering Republicans only hold a
13-11 majority on the panel. Meanwhile,
a White House official tells us that
President Trump will not back down on
this Department of Justice investigation
into whether or not Powell misled
Congress this very Senate Banking
Committee about the Fed's renovations to
its headquarters here in Washington.
Allegations that Powell denies. Now, the
Trump administration, as you will know,
was handed this potential off-ramp or
last month when a judge ruled against
the subpoenas in that case, but still at
this point the DOJ says that they will
appeal that decision. Now, for Warsh's
part, Bloomberg News did obtain a copy
of his prepared remarks where he is
expected to vow to protect the central
bank's independence. He's expected to
say in part, quote, "I believe that
monetary policy independence is earned
and better policy decisions crafted by
clearing steering clear of
distractions." Senator Tim Scott's team
says to expect questions about charting
monetary policies when I checked in with
them yesterday because, John, this will
mark the first public remarks from Warsh
about interest rates since his
nomination and since the war in Iran has
brought up those energy prices.
>> Looking forward to it. Tana, thank you.
Tana Gendo down in the nation's capital
with us here in New York. Chris Ferrone,
I strategist at Bad Company. Chris, good
morning. Great to be here. The words of
Kevin Warsh, "Inflation is a choice. The
Fed must take responsibility for it."
Does that sound like a man who's about
to cut interest rates? Uh listen, I
think at the end of the day, when you
even look at the Fed funds futures
market here, cuts are coming back into
the market. So, I still think we'll get
one or two by the end of the year. Look
at December 26 offer or June 27 offer,
you really priced back a cut in uh as we
start to move towards the end of the
year. So, yes, I I do think ultimately
uh we are working towards a cut here. I
think the bond market's figured that out
kind of following this kind of initial
panic around the start of the war.
Two-year yields have come back down.
10-year yields, I mean, for as chaotic
as the world has been, we're sitting
here with a 10-year yield still at about
4.25.
Um not a lot has really changed from the
bond market's view here. And stocks
close to all-time highs. All-time highs,
right? And let's get into that.
>> Yeah. Why do you think this is more than
just a position squeeze?
So, when you go back and you kind of
take stock of what the leadership before
the war and now as we kind of we think
kind of move towards the ending phase,
it's not that terribly different. I
think really important yesterday,
uh cyclicals made new relative highs
before the defensives. That's kind of
our view of how the market perceives the
economy.
Um so, things still in pretty good
condition from that perspective. You
know, when you look at the quality of
this advance under the surface,
something like 50% of the S&P made a
one-month high on Friday. That's a
really good reading. It It tends to lock
in some durability to the advance.
Something like 60% of the Russell 2000
made a one-month high.
Uh I think this is suggestive of more
than just a bounce from the March lows.
There's some durability behind this.
What it means for the next couple weeks
with a very overbought market, I do not
know, but if you're looking 6 months
out, I still think we're higher than
where we are here. Just from a logic
perspective, does it make sense to you
that consumer discretionary should lead
at a time where the consumer is being
crimped by higher oil prices? As we
wrote a few weeks ago and I would say
again loudly this morning, the less you
know in this business, right? Um
If you
>> Right? The less you know. Um there's a
lot of things uh about the last four or
five weeks that seem to defy the logic
and I think oil might be the best
example. I think the high in oil was
March 11th. The headlines only got worse
thereafter, yet oil could not make new
highs, right? So, we look for things
that behave differently than the
consensus or the headlines might imply.
I think discretionary is a great example
of that. 80% discretionary made a
one-month high this week. That's the
best reading we've seen in about 4
years. first legitimate sign of momentum
from the discretionary sector that we've
seen in a number of years at the most
unusual of times. So, we can see that
the market knows a lot more uh than we
do. It's kind of a comforting feeling
that we don't have to have it all
figured out. Uh and I think the market
is saying something out there is more
constructive for discretionary than
people believe. Not to be conspiracy
theorist.
>> Yeah.
But I don't feel particularly comforted
by the fact that the less you know, the
better off you are. And I feel also like
there's an increasing number of people
who are concerned that maybe markets are
trading off something that they don't
know, which is raising concerns about
whether they want to get involved in
that. How do you deal with concerns
about that?
>> You know, at least I think if we were
sitting here the last week of March 2020
or early April 2020, we'd be having the
same discussion cuz it was exactly when
consumer discretionary really started to
inflict. I think if we were sitting here
in summer or fall of '22, we'd be having
a very similar discussion as uh frankly
inflation expectations began to come
down and discretionary start to turn up.
So, the market is two or three steps
ahead of you or I. And I think the
message here um frankly is one that
we're reinforcing a lot of the themes
that were in place pre-war. And you see
it with the power stocks, the
industrials, the capex. I mean, the the
velocity with which things like we look
at tech equally weighted the way that
tech equally weighted has gone on to
make new highs here, I think is pretty
compelling. Well, your whole thesis is
predicated though on the war ending.
What if it doesn't? We don't even know
if the Iranians are showing up in the
next I would disagree, Mary. I would say
my whole thesis is predicated on this is
not a financial event. And when you go
back and you look historically and you
drew every geopolitical event on the S&P
chart, you wouldn't really notice. They
tend not to matter very much. If you
drew every financial event, you would
notice because they do tend to matter.
So, our kind of main part of our call is
what's happened in Iran is not spiraling
to a global financial event. And you see
that through credit spreads basically
back to where they were pre-war. The
banks have acted fantastic throughout
all of this. I mean, even the private
credit stocks
are
>> [laughter]
>> I think Apollo hasn't made a new low
since March 2nd or something of that
matter, right? So, the places where I
think the sentiment was probably most
apocalyptic, oh credit, financials,
private credit have actually held their
own throughout all of this. So, I don't
think we're spiraling into that
>> It isn't It is an energy event, though.
It is an energy shock for the rest of
the world.
Yeah, I I listen,
crude certainly meaningfully higher than
it was in January. Crude, helium, LPG,
naphtha.
Yeah, and yet discretionary is working
here. Right, so there's
one of those two things is wrong. And
we're ultimately trying to figure out
what And And also, let's keep some
things in perspective. Um
this economy has operated perfectly fine
with crude in the $80 $90 range. Like
let's not pretend that's $200 oil. So, I
just want to put that in a little bit of
perspective here. We've actually had a
pretty good correction in the energy
stocks over the last three or four
weeks. You're kind of getting
probably getting to a point where they
actually might be timely again on the
long side. Um but I think the bigger
picture here is when you look at what
the leadership is telling us, what the
internals have looked like on this
rally.
I think at worst it's a BB+ rally, and I
think ultimately it's locked in some
duration to this advance.
>> energy stocks might be flat since the
war started, which is kind of crazy.
Well, all all the leadership in energy
came between really September and
February 27th.
Pretty remarkable that again, in the
spirit of the less you know, right? The
market knew something well before you or
I did. I've been tracking energy shock,
rate shock, growth shock. We've had the
energy shock. We had a rate shock for
about 5 minutes.
There was a real concern, I would say,
that some of these central banks would
shift to a much more hawkish stance,
particularly the Bank of England, the
ECB. I think they've backed away from
that since then. So, we can sort of park
that shock, the rate shock, for now at
least. And the growth shock has been
parked alongside with it. Whether that
is the right call to make, the right
thing to see, I don't know, but that's
the way things are playing out.
>> Evidently, the less that I know, the
better I am. And right now, what I'm
looking at is I'm getting a little
worried about is that in the summer when
some people want to go to the south of
France, the south of Italy, or go to
Asia, those flights might not go. And
we're seeing that increasingly from some
of the airlines. So, those are some of
the tangible potential breaks. But, you
know, the less I know. Well, I mean, I
think the corollary of that is new high
Marriott, new high Viking Cruise,
airlines basically at the high So, like
the market seems to have moved on to
something else. Uh I I think is the
bottom point. And John, just on rates,
if 10s were going to five, why didn't
they go to five?
Right. There was every opportunity for a
few weeks there when there was some
pressure in the bond market. You saw
European yields start to go, and they
couldn't get US 10s above 445.
Uh the curve has re-steepened here. I'll
be it modestly, but I do think it's
important if you want to draw some lines
in the sand. 445 on 10s, maybe 40 basis
points in the 210 curve, um
call it 400 on high yield CDX is kind of
the lines that you'd want to watch for,
hey, is actually are things starting to
deteriorate here again? We don't see it
yet. 425 on 10s this morning, basically
the upper end of the range,
>> [music]
>> the pre-war range on a 10-year yield.
Just shocking how stable the 10-year
really has been. I mean, ultimately that
[music] has been the ballast for a lot
of this risk rally. Hey, Chris, good to
see you, buddy. Great to be here. Great
to catch up. Thank you, Chris for
joining us at Strategas. Coming up on
the program, Steve Yates of the Heritage
Foundation as President Trump signals no
extension on a ceasefire. Plus, Yohai Ra
has your morning movers. Amazon [music]
investing an additional $5 billion
in Anthropic.
Snapping a five-day winning streak on
the S&P 500 in yesterday's session, it
bounced this morning by a third of 1% up
by 0.36 on the Nasdaq 100. On the
Nasdaq, 13-day streak snapped yesterday,
that 13-day winning run. Gains of more
than 16% or something like that, Bramo.
What a stretch for the Nasdaq 100.
>> Yeah, and it was just snapped. It wasn't
as though it was some sort of massive
sell-off, and today people are coming
right back in and this is ahead of what
we're expecting next [music] week with
earnings from some of the big tech
giants. I'm in some pretty big moves in
terms of investments as well as personal
personnel management moves at a time
when potentially these tech companies
are on the cusp of revolutionizing how
we live.
>> We'll tell more about Apple a little bit
later in the program as well, a change
at the top of that company. Let's talk
about the bond market struggling to
shake up fixed income. Mr. Verona over
at Strategas put it well.
This bond market unmoved by so much of
the last 1 month or so. The 10-year
yields just about unchanged and as I've
repeated several times at the upper end
of the pre-war range on a 10-year yield.
Elevated, yes. Breaking out to new
ranges, not quite. I think Chris
Verona's on to something when he says
the less you know because ultimately if
you scrutinized the leaked [music]
commentary from Kevin Warsh that was
published by Politico, you would think
he was still the hawk that he used to be
and that he'd be inclined to actually
keep rates where they are or even hike
them. Talking about how keeping [music]
inflation at a high level as it has done
in recent years is grievous harm has
done to our citizens. Talking about how
it's necessary to wrangle it under
control. You'd think that bond markets
might care but no, they don't care at
all because they're looking at what he
does not he what what he says and
potentially this is all just lip service
to try to get the job.
>> Yeah, I don't know which one it is but I
wasn't tripped by the comments. I
believe that monetary policy
independence is earned. Inflation is a
choice I think is the line that jumped
off the page for me when I first saw
that testimony from Politico just
yesterday. Inflation is a choice. That
seems to be a screaming message for the
current Federal Reserve.
>> And the Fed must take responsibility for
it to your point, exactly. So, right now
the market's saying, "Eh, show us
something that really will move the
needle and it's not going to be that."
>> Well, you thought it would be this.
Brent, WTI. [music]
Hasn't been that either. Brent crude
around 95, WTI around 88. We're down
about 1% let's call it going into talks.
Now, potential talks because I still
don't think we're really sure whether
these talks are happening and at what
level. Potential is the operative word
there. I spoke to a Pakistani official
who said this to me, "Fingers crossed
that the talks happen tomorrow." We have
not got a read out from the Iranians on
whether or not they're going to attend.
They have not left. The US delegation
has not [music] left the United States.
So, at the moment, potential talks, but
TBD. Fingers crossed. I think we're all
hoping for progress on that point,
that's for sure. If you're just joining
us, welcome to the program Futures. Back
in a [music] green again, up by 3rd of
1%. Let's get you some single names and
morning movers. Yohai Asma, hey Yohai.
Hey John, we'll start with none other
than Apple. Shares are down some 3/10%
in the pre-market, trimming earlier
losses on that [music] bombshell CEO
transition that will see John Ternus
lead the company. And looking through
analyst notes this morning and hearing
your interview with Tom Forte, they
largely see this as a continuity move
with Morgan Stanley saying that this
does little to alter Apple's core
strategy. And the market's trying to
decide whether that is a [music] good or
a bad thing in the age of AI. Uh and
moving on to a company that is unlike
Apple spending big on AI, that is
Amazon. Shares are up 2.7%
in the pre-market because it plans to
spend more, investing another $5 billion
into Anthropic, [music]
potentially $20 billion more over time.
But this partnership will see Anthropic
[music]
spend more than $100 billion over the
next decade on Amazon's chips [music]
and cloud, locking in long-term demand
for AWS. And that move is filtering
through uh Amazon's supply chain with
its suppliers like Astera Labs up nearly
7%, uh Credo up 5% in the pre-market
since that expanded partnership means
more demand for their connectivity
solutions used [music] in data centers.
John. Yohai, thank you. More from Yohai
later this hour. On our radar this
morning, President Donald Trump saying
he's unlikely to extend the Iran
ceasefire. The president telling
Bloomberg the US won't be rushed into a
bad deal. The Vice President J.D. Vance
expected to lead the negotiations.
Elsewhere, Fed chair nominee Kevin Walsh
testifying before the Senate Banking
Committee this morning. His opening
remarks highlighting the importance of
Fed independence. The DOJ probe into
current Fed chair Jay Powell threatening
to block Walsh's nomination. And
finally, the Apple CEO Tim Cook stepping
down after 15 years at the helm. Cook
handing the reins to hardware boss John
Turnus in September. Turnus expected to
bring a more decisive leadership style,
sharpening Apple's competitiveness in
AI. Two takeaways. I think the first is
that the guy who's coming in, John
Turnus, is a hardware guy who's been at
the company for 25 years. What are they
going to create next? And then to MH's
point before, I think it's a really
important point just to be highlighted
again. Tim Cook is stepping into a new
role of essentially diplomat. He's going
to go around the world and talk with all
of these officials to understand and
maybe guide some of their policies. That
might be the more interesting move given
just how political some of these
companies have gotten, especially in an
era of AI. That's why I wonder how much
bandwidth this new CEO is going to have
when you have your former boss basically
still hovering around, but you're
ultimately the decision-maker. But maybe
it gives him more time to actually focus
on AI, which Apple of course has a bit
been behind the eight ball on. A
shout-out to Walter Isaacson for
LightShed, who last summer came on this
program and talked about the need for a
change of leadership. Now, the stock
move this morning, down by a few tenths
of 1%, signals continuity.
My question for Walter Isaacson will be
a pretty simple one. We've already asked
it a few times this morning. Is
continuity what he believes this company
needs? And it's not clear the answer is
yes, given the fact that ultimately it's
been the lack of a new innovation to
really drive the company into the new
era. I will say though, it's kind of
nice to have somebody else to fly around
the world and talk with the presidents
and prime ministers so you can actually
focus on the business. I imagine a lot
of CEOs feel like they're spending a lot
of time in Washington D.C. and are
getting distracted somewhat from
managing their own businesses. So, I
wonder if this is what we're going to
see going forward just more broadly.
Apple down just 0.3%.
A sent to the president, the president
of the United States telling Bloomberg
the US Iran cease-fire expires tomorrow
night. The vice president JD Vance
expected to travel to Pakistan for a
second round of talks. Steve Yates of
the Heritage Foundation writing the
president made clear that he has a lot
of cards and he's willing to use them.
We have the last gasp of the IRGC trying
to flex their muscles, but they're
really at this point no match. I'm
pleased to say that Steve joins the
program now for more. Steve, welcome to
the show. It's good to see you, sir.
Let's talk about this messy kind of
moment that we're in right now where
both sides trying to find a bit of
leverage. Why do you believe the US is
in a stronger position?
Well, basically because everything the
United States has sought to do in
unwinding this multi-decade intractable
problem has worked better than someone
could reasonably expect at the beginning
of the process.
Uh there has been overwhelming military
dominance strategically. There's been
tactical hits that have come back uh
from time to time. Uh when you start
looking at going from a strategic force
of on the cusp of multiple nuclear
weapons as international uh assessors
and inspectors have account uh have
reported, not just American sources. And
you look at the large number of
organized military forces, uh you have a
divide now in Iran between regular
military and the IRGC. Uh all of them
from leadership down to true
capabilities are degraded. Uh and we
have new tools that have been opened up
between round one of negotiations and
whether we get to round two in the next
day or two or it takes longer. Uh
there's been an immense toolbox of
financial tools that have opened up to
Secretary Bessant that really aren't
open to public scrutiny that uh are
because Iran lashed out at allies. And
so, international financial access and
tools that could be just as crippling
economically as the military has been in
that strategic sense. This is a
correlation of forces that can push for
a change. The question is what kind of a
change? If you're not going in to occupy
and run a country, which we absolutely
are not doing this time around, you're
going to end up with this messy
situation of a disaggregated leadership
that is a bit schizophrenic on
communications, some elements lashing
out, and you have to manage that
de-escalation over time. Well, if that's
the Iran we're left with, what does that
mean for stabilization of the region?
Well, in some ways the region is much
stronger. If you look at the Arab allies
that have a lot of capital that are
determined to invest in a number of
different ways, first and foremost in
their own capabilities, having strong
independent allies is actually a net
benefit to the United States. If we have
to surge anywhere in the world from the
Indo-Pacific to our own hemisphere, it
helps greatly if we have very strong,
vested, and determined allies who can
somewhat keep the lawn mowed in their
own region without us having to be there
for daily maintenance.
It doesn't mean we leave. It just means
that it's a much better set of options
for us and for the allies for that
matter. I think there's been a clearing
of the air somewhat on where there are
real powers and abilities to influence.
United Nations has been AWOL in this.
Europe in many ways has not influenced
things very much beyond going on
television or public events.
And some allies in Asia are stepping in
to balance things in different ways,
too. So, some of these changes, if they
are sustained, changes in energy
dependence and flows that could greatly
affect China's geo-strategy and the US
relative power there on those
negotiations. So, a lot still to unfold,
but I think on balance, there's a lot of
geopolitics that are net advantage while
there's still a lot of risk to manage.
>> Steve, as you know, the Iranians are
notoriously famous for dragging their
feet when it comes to negotiations. Do
you even think we have talks tomorrow?
I'd give it about a 50/50 chance, but I
don't think it matters in the long run.
I think I admire the administration's
willingness to do this. That's one of
the things that kind of goes counter to
a lot of the cartoon caricatures of
President Trump and his style. This has
been a very gradual escalation of power
and use of tools.
Uh it's it's been somewhat patient. Uh
it's much different than sort of the
flash bang of going into Iraq before and
pushing for regime change and
debathification.
Uh there's a higher tolerance to work
with remnants uh that is kind of more of
a centrist and pragmatic approach than
people might have assumed. Uh and so uh
I think that uh it doesn't matter as
much if the talks happen in the next
24-48 hours. That is great if there is a
sustained deal that comes of it, but I'm
very much in the don't trust, just
verify category when it comes to who
you're negotiating with. With all due
respect, there's this question about the
impulsivity or whether this was
orchestrated or whether this was a
patient effort given the fact that a lot
of allies were not aligned or aware of
exactly what was happening and now
there's a lot of pushback at least
publicly from both the Europeans as well
as from the some of the Gulf allies
talking about how you made this mess,
now clean it up. How do you see it
differently?
Just the facts of the on the ground are
completely counter to that narrative. We
have politicians in a lot of geographies
whose audience is larger than their
ability to influence.
Uh they have meetings about meetings
about someday going in and protecting
freedom of navigation, but the whole
world can watch that they are all dance
and no music.
Uh and when the in the Gulf, there're
definitely some mixed messages that come
from different capitals, but real
centers of power among those Gulf allies
are are saying publicly that they are on
the American side of this longer term,
and ultimately they don't think that the
Iranians are
are free of responsibility in all this.
Ultimately, Iran has been a profound
threat to them, and they've seen
everything that's been tried in recent
decades as being insufficient to the
task. They don't like the ugliness of
the missiles coming their way. have
greater certainty, greater access, but
they see this as having been a necessary
issue to address, whether they liked the
timing or the pre-operation
consultation. Also, not everyone who is
consulted says so publicly. Steve,
there's also a question. You you you
mentioned that you think that it aligns
the United States in a better position
geopolitically, even with respect to
China. There are a number of people who
say that China is trying to actually
reinforce its influence in the Middle
East as the major oil buyer from the
region, and that you're seeing actually
some of the oil traded in the region
from Iran transacted in renminbi. What
do you make of that? The idea that that
China's actually gained leverage during
this process?
Well, it's I think very incidental
leverage, and it's it's really exposed
two huge vulnerabilities for China that
haven't really factored into a lot of
people's long-term assessments of
China's power and influence. One is
China is entirely dependent on being an
export-led economy. There has been no
transition to a consumption economy in
China, and where they have to export is
to the world's largest consumer market,
which is the United States. That's a
huge complication for them. The other
part is that China remains hugely
dependent on imported fossil fuel.
There's been a lot of chatter about them
racing ahead on solar, and maybe they
are, but when it comes to being a
cutting-edge AI-driven
export tech economy, it's just
impossible for them to even function at
a at a survivable rate without that
dependence on imported energy and
especially fossil fuel. Uh and so their
risks have gone significantly up or
whether we've had exposure on rare
earths, they have much bigger
vulnerabilities. Really both have to
address those, but America's options are
getting gradually better. I think
China's options are not.
Steve, it's good to hear from you.
Appreciate your reaction and
anticipation of these talks if they
happen in the next 24 hours. Thank you,
Steve. Steve Yates there of the Heritage
Foundation. Just as we're wrapping up
those thoughts, we got some comments
from the President of the United States
down on social media. Not on the US and
Iran.
Not on those talks, but on Apple and Tim
Cook. Yeah, that he's an incredible guy.
Um he basically is talking about how
he's a huge fan of Tim Cook. He even
makes a joke, which I think a lot of us
think about when we think of the
President and Tim Cook. When I got the
call, I said, "Wow, it's Tim Apple." And
then in the parentheses, the President
says, "Cook." Um calling, "How big is
that?" He said he's very impressed with
myself, the CEO of Apple basically
calling, "Helping you with problems that
only he could do." And basically saying
if they had to hire a consultant, it
would have cost Apple millions.
Basically saying he saved the company
millions of dollars. Says he's an
incredible guy. And I think this is
pretty much a sign-off to Tim Cook. But
of course, this is why Apple is keeping
Tim Cook around as executive chairman.
If you're a new incoming CEO that ran
hardware, you're an engineer, is this
really the portfolio you want to deal
with on day one?
>> The ambassador keeps his jump at the
Trump Tower. Apple. And frankly, I'm
sure everyone is happy because if you
think about it, that's not a small
distraction if you're at the top of one
of these tech companies.
>> That's stock just a little bit softer
this morning by 1/31%. Let's give you an
update on news worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahaira Hasmar, hi
Yahaira. Hi John. [music]
Three ships, including an Iranian
vessel, crossing the Strait of Hormuz
even as the US and Iranian blockades
remain in place. The Iranian vessel
stopped signaling its location after
moving into the Gulf of Oman, around 800
vessels remain stuck in the Persian
Gulf.
MAGA Inc. is building a nearly $350
million war chest ahead of the midterm
elections, according to federal filings.
The super PAC raised over $35 million
just last month, fueled by donations
from roofing supply billionaire Diane
Hendricks and tech investors Mark
Andreessen and Ben Horowitz.
And Amazon is investing $5 billion in
Anthropic and may inject $20 billion
more over time. The partnership will see
Anthropic, maker of the Claude chatbot,
spend more than $100 billion over the
next 10 years on Amazon cloud services
and AI chips. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Johanna, thank you. More
from Johanna in about 30 minutes. Up
next on the program, Kevin Warsh setting
the tone.
There's a potential for Kevin Warsh to
come in and kind of set the tone about
how he's going to smooth out this
leadership transition. It's really
important to help us understand how How
does Kevin Warsh think about rates
policy? In just a moment, we'll catch up
with Andrew Sheets of Morgan Stanley,
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Under surveillance this
morning, Kevin Warsh setting the tone.
There's a potential for Kevin Warsh to
come in and kind of set the tone about
how he's going to smooth out this
leadership transition. Because right
now, it's really it's quite chaotic.
It's a bit of an enigma what his
reaction function is. It's really
important to help us understand how How
does Kevin Warsh think about rates
policy? He's had very hawkish positions
in the past
and now he's has very dovish positions.
So here's the latest this morning. Fed
chair nominee Kevin Warsh set to face a
grilling on Capitol Hill at his
confirmation hearing. Warsh writing in
prepared remarks, quote, "I believe a
reform-oriented Federal Reserve can make
a real difference to the American
people." Here's the big line. "Inflation
is a choice and the Fed must take
responsibility." Joining us now is
Andrew Sheets at Morgan Stanley. Andrew,
good morning.
What kind of change are you expecting at
the top of the Federal Reserve when
ultimately the handover takes place?
Yeah, thanks. Good morning. It's It's
great to be here. So we we do think that
Warsh will embrace a view uh that I that
I think is is backed by a certain level
of of initial data that AI is boosting
productivity and that productivity boost
is going to be disinflationary and help
relieve inflationary pressures in the
economy. And I think this is a view
that's also very close to a Silicon
Valley tech-focused view of the world
which I think helps form his worldview.
Now, the challenge is that the data that
the Fed is inheriting is still above the
Fed's target. Core PCE year-over-year is
3%. Uh it's been well over the Fed's
target for a considerable period of
time. And so it's not just about what
the new Fed chair will think. It's about
what the rest of the committee will
think and it's about convincing that
committee of that story. And so again, I
think if we think about this data that's
coming in, the data in the second half
of the year is going to be incredibly
important. That's going to be data
that's harder to to to push off to
tariffs, to push off to one-off other
things.
>> Some officials have already weighed in
on that theme. Do they agree with him?
I think a lot of There's a lot of
skepticism. I think there's a lot of
skepticism that inflation is really
coming down. I think the Fed's been
surprised this year about the
persistence of core inflation. And I
think so the next incoming data, the
next several incoming data reports,
remember we're lapping roughly the year
anniversary of Liberation Day And the
tariff impact that we know it's had an
upward pressure on core goods inflation.
And so as I think you get into the next
several data prints, which are arguably
going to be cleaner prints without the
same tariff impact year over year. As
you get into the second half of the year
where some of those factors should be
easing.
If it does ease, I think that makes the
new Fed shares case a little easier if
they're trying to convince the the rest
of the the the board that inflation's
coming down. If it doesn't,
then I think it's a much harder hill to
climb. How much is the market just
completely ignoring the statements that
we got that were leaked from Kevin Warsh
ahead of this testimony considering this
sounds like the hawkish person who he
was before he was nominated by President
Trump. And frankly, this sounds like
someone who'd be even willing to hike
rates in the face of higher inflation.
Yeah, I I think the market is is willing
to look through that. I think the market
believes that ultimately
um
the Fed will want to normalize policy if
inflation is coming down. I think you
the market can also look at inflation
break evens and say those have been
relatively stable in the face of some of
this other higher core inflation
pressure. Again, that should overall
encourage a gradual normalization of
policy. But I think as we get into these
hearings, as we get more statements,
there is going to be a lot of important
information that comes out. But again, I
think the market is is still believing
that this is ultimately uh a new Fed uh
potential Fed chair who ultimately wants
to lower interest rates and sees more
disinflationary pressure on the economy.
How much is the rally and and frankly
the strength in credit predicated on
that assumption?
Well, I one, I I do think that you've
had uh a challenge where the market has
eased financial conditions again as as
as as this rally has taken place, right?
So equities are higher, credit is
tighter, um yields are lower. And so in
some level, some of the argument for
easing into some of these growth shocks
from from a potential extended energy
risk, will those go away if financial
conditions have already eased. But I
also think for credit, whether or not
the Fed stays on hold, cuts rates 25 or
50, I actually think that's a relatively
minor issue. I think the more important
thing for credit is is one whether or
not the economy holds up. If there's a
recession, it's quite bad.
But also, just the level of supply. I
mean, the levels of AI financing
continue to surprise what we thought
were going to be very large levels 6
months ago. 6 months ago,
um or or over the last 6 months, our
estimates for AI-related spending have
increased $630 billion.
Increased that much. So, that's an
enormous amount of spending. That's an
enormous amount of spending that needs
to be financed, and that's a big issue
that the credit markets are having to
deal with. It's just a lot of supply, a
lot of supply coming from often
high-quality issuers, but it needs to
get financed, and that can put some
pressure pushing spreads wider. Andrew,
when it comes to Kevin Warsh, Senator
John Kennedy says he'll ultimately be
confirmed in what decade? I don't know.
Do you have a date penciled in on when
potentially he actually will get a
confirm- confirmation of Kevin Warsh? We
we we do not. So, we we have to we have
to play that by ear. Again, I think that
for the moment, the the market I think
can take some comfort in the idea that
the market's expecting the Fed on to be
on hold
anyway. So, you know, the lack of a of
of a change over maybe matters a little
bit less as we're in this intermediate
period. I think where it gets more
awkward is if we have a significantly
higher inflation print. If if inflation
does not moderate in the second half of
the year, does that complicate this
question more? Or if we get an extension
of the crisis and and there's this
question of does the Fed feel confident
enough to react? But again, I think for
the moment that that question of if it
takes a little bit longer is is one that
the market can deal with.
>> Andrew Sheets at Morgan Stanley. Andrew,
good to see you in New York. Thank you,
Seth, for dropping by. What happens
after May 15th? Nobody knows. [music]
And frankly, right now, nobody cares.
The less you know. Stocks, near all-time
highs. Equities up again by 0.4% this
morning. Up next, we'll catch up with
Savita Subramanian of Bank of America,
Stephen Kucera of the Council on Foreign
Relations, Angelo Zino of CFRA, and Tony
Rodriguez of Nuveen [music] from New
York City. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
The data still feels like the economy is
very strong.
>> has [music] remained intact.
>> It's very clear there's a lot of
resilience in the economy.
>> There is absolutely zero room for
consumers to be able [music] to absorb
higher prices.
>> It's not all happy dogs and rainbows out
there. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like [music] this.
Equity futures bouncing back, heading
back towards all-time highs on the S&P
500 following snapping a five-day
winning run on the S&P 500 yesterday.
Likewise on the Nasdaq, snapping [music]
a 13-day winning streak this morning, up
by 0.5. For the Russell, up by 0.3.
Going into this a little bit later this
morning, retail sales at 8:30 Eastern
time. After the close, [music] we'll
hear from United Airlines somewhere in
between at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, a
little bit later this morning. Kevin
Warsh
>> [music]
>> testimony on Capitol Hill.
>> Yeah, how much will it matter? I mean,
we've talked about how this is going to
be political theater, but there also are
comments that you've [music] mentioned
were leaked to Politico from Kevin Warsh
talking about the importance of
wrangling inflation back in the in the
bottle, and talking about how this is a
choice by the Federal Reserve. This
sounds like the hawkish Kevin Warsh that
everyone has loved and known for many,
many years. So, [music]
would the real Kevin Warsh please stand
up? It also sounds like shots fired at
team transitory and J. Powell. Inflation
is a choice. The Fed must take
responsibility for it, something that
the Fed really hasn't done given the
fact that they're cutting interest rates
when inflation has been closer [music]
to 3% than 2%. He also talks about how
it does grievous harm to the citizens,
especially those that are least
well-off. Another interesting moment in
this testimony. I do not believe the
operational independence of monetary
policy is particularly threatened when
[music] elected officials, i.e.
presidents, state their views on
interest rates and saying central banks
need to be strong enough to listen to
everyone, have a variety of opinions.
>> There's plenty of nuggets here, right? I
believe that monetary policy
independence [music]
is earned. I imagine there might be some
pushback on the committee. A little bit
like they said this morning.
>> Especially given the fact that right now
people are somewhat skeptical, although
that pushback is not what the market
wants to hear. Ultimately, people will
just say la la la, we don't really care.
This is the classic kind of [music] line
of questioning. Post it on your
Instagram and we'll tune it out. The
real line of questioning is what's your
threshold to cut rates again? [music]
The other question that people have is
what is some sort of cooperation with
the Treasury Department? What does that
look like given the [music] fact that a
closer tie between the two departments
could end up with the Treasury having a
say in the Fed's balance sheet. There
are a whole host of questions
>> [music]
>> that are lined up for this afternoon
that we probably will not hear about.
I'd like a deeper understanding of his
reaction function. I want to understand
if his his mood, his idea, his view of
things has changed since the war in
Iran. Two, three, he's got this whole
thesis that because of technological
developments that [music] ultimately
they'll be able to reduce interest
rates. I'd like to hear more about that.
Can he get the committee to come
alongside [music] him?
Those are all things we'd like to hear
about. You're not going to hear much
about them later on this morning based
on the views of so many people that have
already come on this program.
>> It'll probably just be [music] a
question about "Are you Trump's man? Are
you going to do whatever he says?" And
he's going to say no, and they're going
to say, "Are you sure? Well, how about
this?" And he's going to say no, and
then it's going to be repeated.
>> Sir, you're worth so much money.
Oh, yeah, that's true.
>> rich. You're so wealthy.
How can anybody trust you to set policy
for the country when you've got all this
money? All [music] right.
I know. I know. I know.
I know, but please, ask some questions.
I keep hoping that we're going to get
somebody speaking in there. Well,
Senator McCormick, obviously
>> [music]
>> Wall Street into some of the financials
and also macroeconomics
when it comes to this hearing.
>> I'm pleased to
>> I'm hopeful.
I share some of that hope. I hope you're
not wrong.
Someone's got to do it.
>> for Washington is like rock bottom.
>> The less I know. It's just I'm a little
more hopeful than you, maybe, then.
>> Okay. All right. 10:00 a.m. Eastern
time. You can tune in for yourself.
[music] Coming up this hour, Savita
Subramanian of Bank of America as the
Nasdaq snaps a 13-day winning run.
Angelo Zino of CFRA as Apple sets its
succession plans in motion. As Stephen
of the Council on Foreign Relations as
President Trump signals a ceasefire
extension is unlikely. We begin this
hour with stocks holding their all-time
highs. Savita Subramanian of Bank of
America writing, "We see a big
proportion of halves in financials and a
good chunk of halves in tech and see
both sectors as rife with idiosyncratic
opportunity." Savita joins us now for
more. Savita, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Good morning.
>> The mood on Wall Street, buy the dips.
I've seen this across the board. I've
seen it from a range of banks that every
time you get a big bit of weakness, you
should buy it. Is that your approach to
this moment?
>> Uh
not necessarily. I I think you can you
can use this opportunity to buy certain
stocks, and you mentioned tech and
financials. Those are areas where we
think a lot of stocks have been sort of
summarily rejected because of
geopolitical risk and haven't
necessarily come back. Um I think that
for the index overall, I worry because
there are some supply shocks in terms of
equity coming up. Um we've got a lot of
private capital sitting on the sidelines
waiting to IPO, especially in
technology, which is the biggest chunk
of the S&P 500 of of the US equity
market.
Um I also think that the direction from
here is really what's the next positive
surprise versus negative surprise. And
you know, we're done with that whole
geopolitical thing, it seems. But are
we? You know, I think that's the
question.
Um and then on top of that, we're
starting to see the potential impact of
higher oil prices in consumer companies
forward guidance. So, I think that the
the risk is
the impact of oil shocks takes a while
to play through. So far what we've seen
is that consumers are spending more on
gas and oil, but the actual hit to
discretionary and you know, kind of the
rest of the stack could be three
quarters out. That's what we found in
our data. So, I think this is a moment
where you have to think about what are
the positive versus negative surprises.
I guess I don't see as much likelihood
of positive surprises in these big
bellwether sectors like tech,
like, you know, even industrials. I
think industrials is now trading at a
really lofty multiple. It's pretty
crowded. Sure, tons of tailwinds, CapEx
alive and well, everything is
hunky-dory.
Defense, you know, you've got oil plays
in the sector, but I do think that
you know, there are areas of the market
that were basically bought to hedge
against geopolitical risk.
Industrials being the classic case.
I mean, it's interesting. So, I'll I'll
give you a little anecdote. I was
marketing in Europe a couple of weeks
ago and as you know, it's hard for
global investors to buy fossil fuels.
So, I think that, you know, there is
this this
frustration because you can't buy oil
stocks, oil is surging. So, I think
there was this sort of industrials
closet energy demand because if you look
at the the correlation of industrials
companies, they're basically they act
like energy. A lot of them look like
energy and act like energy stocks, but
aren't in the energy sector. So, they're
a good way to get exposure to a
commodities up cycle without actually
having to buy the energy companies.
Sorry, long long answer.
>> unpack some [laughter] of it. So, the
headwinds and the threat at the index
level you need to account for. IPOs
being one, the lagged effect from higher
oil prices being two. There's a third
from tracking your research that you
didn't mention, and that was buybacks.
Ah, yes, yes.
>> changing? And why is that becoming a
bigger headwind to this index?
>> So, I mean, there's a lot more claims on
capital for companies. Thank you for
remembering that for me. Um, buybacks
are a big deal. I think that what we're
seeing now, they're still happening and
in certain sectors like financials and
tech, you're seeing really sustained
levels of contribution to earnings per
share from buybacks, but for other
sectors, we are starting to see a bit of
a slowdown. And, you know, I think that
that what we're seeing right now in that
mega-cap tech complex suggests
cost-cutting. And you're seeing this
with layoffs, buybacks are slowing down,
there's a lot more money earmarked for
CapEx, like kind of mandatory CapEx. So,
I think that's the problem right now is
you've got higher interest rates, you've
got this environment where the cost of
capital has increased pretty
aggressively, could go up even further
for IG investment-grade debt in, you
know, in some of these tech areas where
you're seeing supply issuances as we
were talking about. So, I think this is
a moment where you really want to think
hard about what companies are doing with
their capital. Buy the ones that are
getting the CapEx, not spending the
CapEx. And buy the companies that are
continuing to have this share buyback or
cash return focus,
because that is starting to wane rather
than wax.
>> It feels like it's sort of a good moment
for Tim Cook to step aside as the share
buyback The king of share buybacks is
stepping down at a time where maybe
that's not going to be as much of a
driver. You pair the potential negative
technical with the positive that
everyone who comes in the show keeps
talking about, which is earnings.
They've beat the upside tremendously.
>> are great.
>> that not enough for you? Earnings are
not the problem. Earnings are great. I
mean, so far, so good. Q1 coming in
strong, more beats than misses by a big
margin. Um, I think though, you know,
when you think about what markets react
to, it's not necessarily actual
earnings, it's a surprise element. So,
you know, what we found is that during
years of really strong earnings and
strong GDP growth, the market actually
turns in sort of, you know, average
returns. It's not necessarily the
greatest year for the market. The
markets generally anticipate these
recoveries.
And now the question is, are earnings
going to surprise as much as they did
last year or the year before? I don't
know. I think it's harder at this point.
What do you have to see next week from
the big tech players to potentially
change your view and suddenly upgrade to
7,600 and say, you know what, tech is
back again. It's going to be a great
year.
>> Right. Right. Buy the dips. Buy the
dips. Um, look, I think that tech is
still, you know, the future, right? And
it's it's um, some of these companies
belong as core holdings in our
portfolios. But I think that the idea
that all of the Magnificent Seven can go
to infinity is hard to imagine. There
going to be winners and losers. And, you
know, I I guess I want to see how long
it takes to really monetize AI because
if you look at the telecom bubble back
in the '90s, 2000s, obviously very
different, much more extreme valuations,
a lot more leverage. But during that
that build-out cycle,
the companies couldn't fund themselves
and last long enough to enjoy the the
fruits of their labor, which is all that
fiber they laid in the ground that we
are using now, but they're not around to
actually recoup the benefits. So, I
think
the longer this this build-out cycle
takes and the longer it takes to
actually monetize these efficiency
tools, um, the more at risk some of
these companies are, especially the ones
that are having to lever up to extend
that that CapEx machine. Something that
struck me in your research was you say
there's better low low income consumer
for affordability measures. The same
time what I'm seeing in polling is that
the lower income consumer is struggling
right now with higher gasoline prices.
>> gas and oil, yeah. So, I mean, I think
that's the one kind of um
uh dark spot. But, when you think about
the lower income consumer in general, I
think what we've seen outside of of
energy is a slow down in some of the
inflationary measures for um you know,
food at home versus food away from home.
Like, things that are skewed more to
that lower income wallet. I think, you
know, one of the benefits as we move
towards the midterm elections is if we
start to see a renewed focus on this
affordability agenda. And, you know,
that could that could get the wheels
turning again for the consumer. But, um
but I think, you know, we're we're we
were surprised by this sort of inflation
shock rather than a disinflation
affordability shock at the beginning of
the year. So, I think that's the uh the
spanner in the works.
>> Yeah, how we started the year and how we
kicked off the month of March were very,
very different. Let's put it that way.
So, Sibilla, good to see you. Always
enjoy your research. Thank you. Sibilla
Subramanian there of Bank of America.
The president weighed in just moments
ago on social media. Just one line. Just
one line enough to pull the equity
market back just a little bit. And, that
one line read as follows. Iran has
violated the ceasefire numerous times.
>> So, this is got obviously going to throw
some cold water on the potential for
those talks tomorrow. Is the president
basically trying to prepare everyone
that because he thinks they violated the
ceasefire, maybe those talks won't go
ahead to Islamabad. Remember, neither
delegation has left their home countries
yet to go for those talks. When he talks
about Iran violating the ceasefire, I
imagine he means when they pretty much
said the straight was open, then it was
closed. A little bit of a difference
between what the Iranian politicals are
saying versus the IRGC. What Iran is
saying right now is that the United
States has violated the ceasefire
especially since they went on to and
held captive an Iranian vessel. So,
right now it looks like potentially a
little bit more tension between this
relationship as a lot of people were
hoping for that off-ramp.
>> We'll keep track of those headlines for
you throughout this morning. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohai Ra has more.
Hey, Yohai Ra. Hi, John. We start there.
President Donald Trump signaling he is
unlikely to extend a ceasefire with
[music] Iran that's set to expire on
Wednesday. The The president telling
Bloomberg he is quote not going to be
rushed into making a bad deal. Trump
posting in the last few minutes as you
said that Iran has violated the
ceasefire numerous times.
We are seeing United Health shares
rising 7% in the premarket after posting
first quarter profit that blew past Wall
Street estimates and boosting
>> [music]
>> its full year outlook. The figures are a
sign the health giant is rebuilding
credibility with investors. It's CFO
saying the increased outlook is prudent.
And President Trump also weighing in on
Apple's succession plans this morning in
a post on Truth Social. The president
complimented [music] the way Cook has
run the company. He called his career
amazing and wrote that Cook will quote
go on and continue to do great work for
Apple. Tim Cook is an incredible guy, he
says. That's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Yeah, Aihara, thank you. I have to check
myself every time I talk about Apple.
How close are you to saying Tim Apple?
All the time.
>> All the time.
>> And Trump actually makes a joke of it.
>> It's true.
>> In a moment of self-awareness, the
president makes a joke of it because he
knows that that clip gets played a lot.
Tim Apple calling Cook.
Up next on the program, succeeding
Apple's Tim Cook.
The suggestion that like only Tim Cook
is the is the is the CEO to run this
company is crazy. You clearly need
someone that can move forward on a lot
of the product development.
Shout out to Walter Piecyk of LightShed.
We'll catch up with him a little bit
later this morning following that
conversation [music] 12 months ago.
Angela Zeno of CFRA joins us next.
>> [music]
>> Equities on the S&P 500 firmer here by
third of 1% bouncing back up by 0.4
on the Nasdaq. Moments ago the president
with just one line on Iran saying that
Iran has violated the ceasefire numerous
[music] times. We were hoping for talks
a little bit later. I'm not sure if
those talks are even taking place.
>> talks were supposed to happen [music]
today and now they're going to be
happening tomorrow. There's an extra day
for the ceasefire. This just adds a new
wrinkle and frankly it's notable to me
that the market again is sort of like,
"Okay, not sure what to make of that so
maybe we'll just move on."
>> Small dip and then shaking it off.
[music] Small dip on Apple's stock as
well in the pre-market. I'm sure you
want to know where that's trading.
Slightly softer throughout this morning
by a few tenths of 1%. [music]
Under Savannah's this morning succeeding
Apple's Tim Cook. The latest this
morning as follows. Cook preparing to
step down following a record-setting
[music]
15-year tenure handing the reins to
hardware boss John Ternus on September
1st with the latest. Bloomberg's Ed
Ludlow joins us for more. Morning Ed,
just walk us through the next steps
here, the timeline and how this is going
to work.
>> Yeah, I mean through September 1st that
would be almost exactly 15 years since
Tim Cook took the reins as CEO which was
August 2011. I think what's so
interesting about all the coverage is
people forget Tim Cook joined Apple in
1998 and was COO in 2005. So his kind of
relationship with the company extends
beyond that. The September 1st point is
interesting because you have WWDC which
is the company's annual developers
conference over the early summer and you
know this time around especially as it
relates to the stock story everyone's
expectation is they will finally say
something about AI and how AI is going
to be meaningfully useful through an
iPhone handset. And then when you get to
September you have the seasonal release
of the latest generations of hardware.
So you know the backward-looking data is
amazing right John? Profit growth of
700% in that period with Tim Cook as
CEO. They finished the last fiscal year
with $112 billion in net income, but the
the current data and forward-looking
data is that top line growth at least is
really plateaued. And so, Tim Cook is
going to continue to talk with policy
makers, government, focus on supply
chain in an executive chairman role. But
what's so detailed in Bloomberg's
reporting, John Turnus is a good
operator, right? Politically and
literally from a hardware engineering
standpoint. And so, he's seen as both
the continuity candidate, but also
someone that might be a bit more Steve
Jobs in mold, have conviction to make
calls, not just to proceed with the big
bets and big swings, but cancel those
projects which don't go as well. And so,
that really is the focus of what
everyone's digesting this morning.
>> Uh thank you, sir. Stay close. We'll
catch up with you again, no doubt, later
on this morning. Angelo Zino of CFRA
maintaining his buy rating on Apple
writing, "We view this well-orchestrated
succession as neutral to modestly
positive." Angelo joins us now for more.
Angelo, I just get the feeling Can we I
get this feeling I'm slightly
uncomfortable that the PR is in
full flow this morning, that people are
worried about offending Tim Cook because
he's had such a great run for 15 years.
Do you sense this was a choice, or was
he getting ahead of potential pressure
later this year to step aside?
Well, you know, I I think the writing
was on the wall with with Tim Cook at
some point to have stepped down, right?
Um you know, it was something that that
had been talked about for a couple of
years at this point in time. When you
look at his age at about 65 or so, I
mean, it it it was it was going to
happen sooner or later. So, timing-wise,
I I do think this is a very interesting
time. I think potentially the right
time. It did come sooner than we
anticipated. We actually kind of thought
he would maybe sit this out or, you
know, stay as CEO through, you know, the
Trump administration stay. Um but that
being said, you kind of look at, you
know,
where Apple is today and what they're
pivoting into. And And this is a
critical year in terms of the shift to
AI, something they've missed the boat
out here over the last 2 years on and um
you kind of look at the shift to
foldables here later this year. Um you
know, I I think it's the right move to
hire a product guy. I think it's also
the the right move to you know, finally
pivot away from Tim Cook. Um again, it
had to happen at some point in time.
Um you know, is Apple somehow smoothing
this out? Potentially. Uh but you know,
nonetheless I I think um
I think it's I think it's the right time
for them. Angela, you said that Apple
missed the boat when it comes to AI. Is
that the right way to look at this or is
it the classic Apple playbook where they
wait for others to start something, try
to perfect it and then roll out a more
complete product after the fact?
Yeah, I think you probably put it better
uh to be honest with you and you know, I
think this is a wait and see for Apple
as far as the AI story is concerned. I I
do believe when you think about um how
Apple is going to find success here in
the future. Clearly, they've uh they've
said we're not going to chase the LLM
strategy and and many people have
applauded that. You look at the multiple
of Apple's stock in the high 20s. Um
most investors are happy with that move.
Clearly, the the the pivot here and
their success is going to be dictated on
AI at the edge at the device side of
things. And again, you know, the move
moving to um you know, John Ternus here
partly makes sense because of that
pivot. When you look here over the next
10 to 15 years, which you know, we think
it is going to be the the time span
you're looking at. Uh John Ternus
staying at Apple. Um you look forward to
that point in time. Clearly, Apple's um
success is going to be dictated on that
AI strategy and rolling out the right
products in an AI driven world. Angela,
do you think that investors will be
patient if we hear from Apple that
they're planning to boost their CapEx
significantly uh as a result of their
effort to try to roll something out in
the AI space.
Well, I I think if they choose to do
that, it's almost it's going to be
dictated on how they articulate it,
where that CapEx gets spent,
and what have you. So, I think there's a
lot of moving parts as far as you know,
the the spending plans
goes going forward.
If if I were John Ternus, and I think
you when you kind of look at Apple here,
I don't think they're going to rock the
boat very much here, at least initially,
as John Ternus takes over. I mean,
you know, one thing that we saw with Tim
Cook when she took over from Steve Jobs,
is he was giving the give the keys to a
very nice car. And when you kind of look
at here,
and what John Ternus is taking over from
Tim Cook, I do think that you know, the
the seeds are put in place here where
you know, clearly they've they've got an
AI strategy that I think they're going
to be able to finally articulate. They
are going to be leveraging you know,
Apple bit as well as others out there
here over the next couple of years. And
again, as you kind of shift to probably
new product devices on the horizon,
finally shifting towards foldables,
I think you've got a good enough
strategy in place. And the great thing
here is Tim Cook does stay on as
chairman. So, he's going to be able to
handle a lot of the dirty work out there
on the policy side. And I think that's a
critical part of the story here. One
executive speaking candidly to our
colleague said that Ternus is a Tim Jr.
What points of the next few years would
you actually want him to see him be
different though than Tim Cook?
You know, I I think initially you kind
of want him to be
you know, a lot like Tim Cook in terms
of execution, operation, and what have
you. At some point in time, you're going
to have to see John Ternus make some of
the the tough decisions out there, and
be willing to go out on the risk curve.
And again, because we are talking about
a more AI driven world, things are going
to move a lot faster here over the next
couple of years and if Apple's not um
innovating, if they're not looking to,
you know, be on the iPhone at this point
in time, you know, clearly they're going
to be stuck in the mud here um long term
and be a low growth single, you know, a
low growth revenue driver. So, um at
some point in time, let's call it here
over the next, you know, two to three
years, uh once uh Turnus gets his, you
know, feet in there, you're going to
want to see him go out on the risk curve
and again, um it's going to have to be a
lot more than just iPhones. Angelo, it's
good to get your view. Thank you, sir.
Angelo Zino there of CFRA. I give Tim
Cook a lot of credit for stepping aside
and I don't want to make too much of a
single day's move, but when you see
those big gaps lower because a CEO has
left and something's gone wrong with
succession planning. I think the fact
you see such a muted move in the stock
is credit to Tim Cook for taking a
succession planning very, very
seriously. That's what you expect.
That's what you should see when a CEO
steps aside.
>> Especially because John Turnus was
pegged as the guy uh months ago. I mean,
people have been expecting this to be
the successor and so frankly, they're
prepared for it and frankly, they're
kind of welcoming it given there isn't
much more of a reaction in the stock
market.
>> We'll have more on that story for you a
little bit later on this morning. Coming
up next, we'll catch up with Steven Cook
of the Council on Foreign Relations as
the Iran ceasefire deadline looms and we
still don't know if we'll have talks
between the US and Iran and at what
level. Plus, Danny's going to be back.
She's got your morning movers. We're
going to look at Apple edging slightly
lower.
>> [music]
>> We're down by not even two tenths of 1%
following the announcement of Tim Cook's
successor. From New York City this
morning, good morning. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Stocks passing this morning, very muted
[music] declines in yesterday's session.
Keith Lerner over at Truist with view
weakness as [music] an opportunity. How
How times you heard that? Matt Cantor at
HSBC, these are exactly the sorts of
dips what we'll have to use very
quickly. You'll have to be fast. Here we
are. Here's the bounce up by 0.4%
[music] on the S&P on the Nasdaq 100 up
by 0.5. The appetite to buy this equity
market stunning. Yeah, and it's sudden
[music] and I think that that's really
the point that a lot of people keep
taking home that this rally has been
absolutely a huge whipsaw and kind of if
you blink you miss it. I love that JP
Morgan just raised their S&P 500
year-end forecast to 7600 after
downgrading it [music] to 7200 last
month in the wake of what we saw with
respect to [music] the war in Iran. It
highlights how quickly this is moving
and how people can't really get a handle
on it. And right now people are saying,
"Okay, that geopolitical stuff as Savita
Subramanian was saying is probably over.
Let's just focus on the fact that tech
earnings look great and that tech will
power us to the moon." I said it when he
did it, Venu over at Barclays raising
his price target in the middle of the
war.
Had to respect it at the time. Had no
idea how it would work out, but so far
so good as we get deeper into April.
>> And when we talked more about that call
we said, "Well, what happens if the war
[music] continues forever?" And they
said, "Well, ultimately that's going to
just eradicate this view. We're wrong."
And the war has continued
>> [music]
>> and they're still right because
ultimately that is the direction of
travel. So, at what point do we get some
sort of right-sizing and understandings?
>> [music]
>> You know, the whole idea of bless you
know is really kind of getting to me
today. We pushed back hard on him
because it felt unorthodox to come on in
the middle of the war and raise your
price target [music]
and he said if he was wrong he'd come
back on the show and guess what? He's
been right. Cheers to him. 40 futures
this morning again up 0.4% in the bond
market. Yields just unchanged. Going to
hear Kevin Warsh's testimony later on
this morning on Capitol Hill in front of
the Senate Banking Committee at 10:00
a.m. Eastern time. We've got yields
doing absolutely nothing. 4.25 on 10s,
2s at 3.73 and 2s just anchored
>> [music]
>> around Fed funds and the idea this Fed
is going nowhere fast. Because that's
what they've told us time time again,
even the more dovish members. I'm
thinking of Chris Waller, the Fed
governor, who had previously [music]
supported a rate cut because of weakness
in the jobs market, reiterating his
concern about the jobs market, but
saying ultimately, there isn't
justification to cut rates with
inflation [music]
inflicting higher on the heels of this
war.
>> Brent crude this morning, 95. WTI, 89.
Just slightly softer. We're negative by,
[music] let's call it 0.5% going into
potential, I stress potential talks
between the US and Iran in the next 24
hours. That's the price action this
morning, cross asset. Let's get some
single names, some morning movers. Danny
[music] has more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. It's the top corporate story
over the past 12 hours. Tim Cook
stepping aside to executive chairman,
>> [music]
>> and John Turnus, the hardware chief,
taking over. This ends Tim Cook's tenure
where he increased the market cap by
10-fold. Not a lot of action. In fact,
the President of the United States
putting on Truth Social [music] moments
ago, uh a very long post about Tim Cook
praising him, um basically [music]
saying he's an incredible guy. Uh Dan
Ives of Wedbush basically saying that
the timing creates [music] questions. It
could make sense, but there are big
shoes to fill. In some earnings news, we
heard from UnitedHealth, and this stock
had really been suffering. It was only
in [music] January that they increased
what they thought would be their loss
for the year. Instead, we get the widest
beat, the widest margin of a beat for
UnitedHealth in 5 years. They also
increased their expectations for the
entirety of the year. They're able to
bring costs in.
>> [music]
>> That beats a key metric, so shares
surging this morning up by 7%. Finally,
GE Aerospace also reporting earnings.
Now, they do have to contend this jet
this jet maker, they have to contend
with the war in Iran, but still travel
demand is very healthy, which helped the
engine maker. At the same time, they
kept their guidance for the year, but
guided toward the high end of the range,
and also guided that they expect oil
prices to remain elevated. Those shares
up 1.6% John. Danny, thank you. Thank
you for the update. More from Danny in
the next hour. On a write-down this
morning, President Donald Trump saying
he's unlikely to extend the Iran truce
that's set to expire tomorrow. The
president posting on Truth Social early
this morning that Iran has violated the
ceasefire numerous times. Elsewhere, a
historic shift at Apple, CEO Tim Cook
stepping down in September after a
15-year run. The hardware chief, John
Terminus, taking over. Cook
transitioning to executive chairman. And
finally, Amazon doubling down on AI,
pouring an additional $5 billion into
Anthropic. The deal securing a massive
10-year partnership for Amazon's own
cloud services and chips. Turning back
to the Middle East, Vice President J.D.
Vance expected to travel to Pakistan as
doubts remain over whether or not
another round of peace talks between the
U.S. and Iran will actually take place.
With the latest, Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Morning, Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, as you
mentioned, President Trump says that
he's unlikely to extend that deadline,
and the White House is now threatening
further escalation, including targeting
Iranian civilian infrastructure if a
deal is not made in time. Though, we're
getting a little bit more insight into
the negotiating tactics, if you will, as
a White House official outlines to
Bloomberg News that President Trump's
varying comments should be seen as
creating strategic ambiguity that the
U.S. can use in any potential
negotiations. So, of course, that's not
the only ambiguity amid this uncertainty
about whether or not Iran will send a
delegation to Pakistan as the Vice
President, alongside Special Envoy Steve
Witkoff and the President's son-in-law,
Jared Kushner, are expected to depart
later today. Though, at this point, they
haven't taken off yet, and we got this
post from President Trump within the
last hour saying that Iran has violated
the ceasefire, which is raising those
doubts further. Now, our reporting has
indicated that leadership within the
IRGC is pushing for a tougher
negotiating stance compared to, say,
less ideological figures such as Iran's
foreign minister or its parliament
speaker, who seem to be more amenable to
a potential deal with Washington.
However, John, perhaps universal among
Iranian officials is that we keep
hearing that the country does not want
to negotiate while the US blockade is
still in place. President Trump
indicated yesterday that it's not going
anywhere until a deal is signed and
while the waterway still remains
virtually closed, we can say that data
analyzed by Bloomberg News shows that at
least three vessels appeared to have
made it through the strait overnight.
Tana Kendal with the latest. Tana, thank
you. More from Tana throughout this
morning as we anticipate potential talks
between the two sides. Steven Cook of
the Council on Foreign Relations writing
the parties are very far apart on the
most important issues. The question is
whether the president has the patience
to continue to squeeze Iran or if he is
willing to escalate. Steven joins us now
for more. Steven, welcome to the show.
Good to catch up. Important day. Let's
see what the next 24 hours holds, but
ultimately an important question for
you. Is Iran willing
to have regime collapse and is the US
willing to maintain maximum pressure and
take the consequences in the energy
market as they come?
Well, the regime believes that it's
winning and that it has weathered the
worst of the American and Israeli
assault and come through it
with the IRGC completely intact. So,
they are at least the leadership of the
IRGC, which is Ahmad Vahidi, who is
essentially running the country, wants
to take a tougher position in
negotiations. The president is variable
as Tyler Kendal's report suggested.
He wants to have a deal. He
but the Iranians have violated the
ceasefire. He's going to keep the the
blockade on the on the strait for as
long as he can.
I would expect that the president does
not want to escalate and is looking for
some opening here for the Iranians to
agree to some sort of extension of the
ceasefire. But again, the Iranians are
driving a very hard bargain because they
believe they're winning. Does the IRGC
give the green light for the talks to go
ahead tomorrow?
Well, again, Ahmad Vahidi, who is the
head of the IRGC, who is quite a
hardliner, will give the go-ahead for
talks as long as Iran's demands are
maximal.
He there seems to be some what of a
split between two figures within the
IRGC. The parliament speaker, Mohammad
Bagher Ghalibaf, and Vahidi over the way
to pursue Iran's interests here.
Ghalibaf is is suggested to be somewhat
more flexible, whereas Vahidi is the
hardest of the hardliners and would
rather Iranians eat dust than capitulate
to the United States.
>> He did seem more flexible until last
night. Ghalibaf tweeted this, "We do not
accept negotiation under the shadow of
threats, and in the past 2 weeks we have
prepared to reveal new cards in the
battlefield." Is the IRGC prepared to
escalate?
Absolutely. I think that the IRGC would
go back to the battlefield.
Once again, they have felt that they,
despite taking a beating,
they have approached this conflict in an
asymmetric way by targeting America's
partners, by targeting the global
economy, by targeting
the Strait of Hormuz, which they now
have at least partial control over,
which is all accrued to their benefit.
And so, the IRGC, highly ideological,
would
continue this fight. They have said that
they have nerves of steel
and that they will not will not
capitulate under threats of the United
States. What would the United Arab
Emirates like to see, given the fact
that they're the closest neighbor to
Iran and have arguably suffered the
greatest amount of damage?
Indeed, the Emiratis have taken more
fire than even the Israelis. But, the
Emiratis
have said that they are going to draw
closer to the United States.
That they
their rapprochement with Iran, which
was happening for a couple of years
before this war began is now over
and they would like to see the straight
opened. They volunteered to be involved
in any kind of military operation to
to reopen the straight and have in fact
engaged in military operations against
the Iranians in response to Iran's
strikes on on the UAE. So the Emirates
are taking a pretty tough stand here.
They are worried over the long term
about what this might do to their
development model but that's why they
are taking a relatively tough stance and
Emirati officials have said that they
will draw closer to the United States as
a result. Last week we talked about
cognitive dissonance, the fact that when
we talked to policy makers, they don't
foresee an easy end to this anytime soon
and when you speak to people in markets,
they're done with it. They don't want to
hear about it, they've moved on. When it
comes to jet fuel, when it comes to
tangible assets that potentially are
running out in places like Europe, do
you have a sense of your likelihood or
your categorization of the likelihood of
jet fuel running out in certain places
and suddenly global flights getting
cancelled as a result of this ongoing
conflict?
Yeah, it's it's very interesting to see
the markets and you all know better
about that than than I do but you know,
there is when you talk to energy
analysts, there's a difference between
the markets and the molecules and there
is
countries that are producing oil
and and other hydrocarbons that are
critical to the running of the global
economy are having to shut in and that
the oil is is is starting to become
scarce. So we might see in places like
the UK and others
the rationing
of jet fuel. I wonder if market actors
will will then wake up to what a serious
crisis this really is. Not saying that
right now Stephen, it's good to hear
from you. Thank you sir. Stephen Cook
there at the Council on Foreign
Relations. Airlines up nicely this
month. I think Delta's up by 7%. We'll
hear from United later on this
afternoon. Discretionary names up by
double digits on the S&P 500 so far in
April. Energy stocks down double digits
so far in April. Yeah, all of this
though with Alaska Airlines pulling
their full year guidance saying oil
prices just are too much of a wild card
for them. JetBlue saying to their
shareholders and their employees, "We're
not going to have to file bankruptcy
this year." It's not a good thing when
you have to tell people you're not
filing for bankruptcy.
>> pretty pretty low for that company right
now, right? It is a difficult time for
the regional players and for the ones
that aren't very large. And so you do
wonder at what point this becomes a
larger story or is this just going to be
a consolidation uh winner takes all type
of thing?
>> Futures session highs up by 0.5% on the
S&P with an update on stories worldwide.
With your Bloomberg brief, Yuhaira has
more. Hi Yuhaira. Hi John.
Three ships including an Iranian vessel
crossing the Strait of Hormuz even as
the US and Iranian blockades remain in
place. The Iranian vessel stopped
signaling its location after moving into
the Gulf of Oman. Around 800 vessels
remain stuck in [music] the Persian
Gulf.
Amazon is investing $5 billion in
Anthropic and may inject $20 more over
time. Anthropic, the maker of the Claude
chatbot, is planning to spend more than
$100 billion over the next 10 years on
Amazon cloud services and AI chips.
[music] The shares up 3%.
And Labor Secretary Lori Chavez De Remer
is leaving the Trump administration.
[music] She has been the subject of an
Inspector General probe following claims
she engaged in an inappropriate
relationship with a staffer, [music]
committed travel fraud, and was drinking
in the workplace. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yuhaira, thank you. I
appreciate the update. Up next on the
program, Kevin Walsh in the hot seat.
I really do think uh Walsh is a great
nominee, but I'm not going to have an
investigation out there. We have to have
an independent Fed. And we can't finesse
this. I'm nice to catch up with Tony
Rodriguez of Neveen from [music] New
York City. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Session highs up by 0.4% on the S&P
[music] and the Nasdaq up by 0.5 and the
bond market twos, 10s, and 30s shaping
up as follows. Twos right now up two
basis points, 3.74.
On the surveillance this morning, Kevin
Warsh in the hot seat.
I really do think Warsh is a great
nominee. In fact, the short [music] list
was great. I told the president that.
But, I'm not going to have an
investigation out there. We have to have
an independent Fed. And we can't finesse
[music] this. They either need to move
forward with a compelling investigation
that convinces me I was wrong.
Or
resolve the current investigation and
move on. Right now we're struggling to
move on. Fed chair nominee [music] Kevin
Warsh preparing for a grilling on
Capitol Hill today vowing to protect the
central bank's independence while
pushing for major reforms. Bloomberg's
Mike McKee has the latest from
Washington. Mike, you've gone through
that prepared testimony. What are you
focused on?
Well, Kevin Warsh addresses the elephant
in the room right away by talking about
independence. Remember the president
said he wouldn't appoint anybody who
didn't want to cut interest rates. So,
the question for many Democrats is how
beholden to Trump is Kevin Warsh going
to be. He says in his testimony that I
do not believe the operational
independence of monetary policy is
particularly threatened when elected
officials, president, senators, or
members of the house state their views
on interest rates. Simply stated, Fed
independence is largely up to the Fed.
What does he mean by that? He goes on to
explain the Fed has to take
responsibility for inflation. It is the
Fed's lodestar. It is the most important
thing they do and Warsh pledges he will
keep inflation low and steady. But he
also goes on to say that independence
does not extend to other areas of Fed
responsibility including public monies,
think buying QE or maybe remodeling a
building, doesn't extend to bank
regulation or international finance,
which could be interesting because we've
seen these reports about the UAE asking
the US for a swap line. Fed probably
wouldn't want to grant it, but would he
do it because the Treasury Department
wants it. There'll be a lot of questions
about the relationship between Treasury
and the Fed.
You mentioned the delay of course with
Tom Tillis, the calendar for what
happens next with Kevin Warsh is kind of
compressed. It's up to Janine Pirro when
they get a vote because Tom Tillis isn't
going to change his mind and do any kind
of vote, allow any kind of vote until
she drops the issue and he can't get
confirmed until he gets a floor vote,
which he can't get until he gets out of
the committee.
Jay Powell's last meeting is April 29th.
That'll be next Wednesday and it'll be
very interesting to hear what he has to
say. His chair term ends May 15th.
he'll stay on if Warsh is not confirmed.
The next Fed meeting after next
Wednesday is June 17th. So a worst case
scenario might be that Warsh is
confirmed by at least that time. I
suppose you could do a double worst and
say he stays on the sidelines for some
time if the US attorney for Washington
does not yield in her investigation. And
they haven't taken the off-ramp so far.
Let's see if it changes. Mike, thank
you. The senator from North Carolina is
not backing down and not backing down
anytime soon. No, he's not. And he you
said he's heard it there. We've been
hearing this for months from Senator
Tillis. He talked about this with us in
Davos. He's basically saying there's no
gray area for him. You can't fudge this.
The investigation needs to be dropped
for him to move forward.
>> Tony Rodriguez of New Vein writes in the
following, "We've incorporated Wascher's
likely eventual confirmation into our
forecast, which currently calls for 1
quarter point rate cut later this year."
Tony joins us now for more. Tony, good
morning. Good morning.
>> Timeline and policy and substance. Let's
kind of play with timeline for a moment.
Middle of May, Chairman Powell's term
ends. Best guess, what happens next?
Well, I think Tillis is going to hold
firm, as you mentioned. And I think
that, you know, you're lucky if you'll
see something by the end of the summer.
We do think you'll see something by the
end of the year because we think this
investigation really doesn't, as you've
seen with some of the court decisions,
have significant merit to it. So, I do
think it'll eventually be dismissed. Um
but you are going to have to wait well
into the second half in our minds. What
will leave the door open for further
rate reductions in your mind? So, in our
minds, what leaves room is that right
now we think they're above the neutral
rate by call it 50 basis points. We
think that as you get to the end of the
year, you'll begin to see some of the
negative economic impact on growth from
higher energy prices. But you will also
begin to see some of the pass-through of
tariffs begin to anniversary itself. So,
inflation will end up, we'll call it
closer to 2.5%, maybe 2.7 by the end of
the year. But with an outlook into 2027
for a decline into the low twos. That'll
allow one cut to still be above the
neutral rate, but kind of reflecting the
path of inflation and some of the
negative impact on the consumer from
higher energy prices. Inflation is a
choice, and the Fed must take
responsibility for it. Does that sound
like a man who wants to cut rates?
No, but he also sounds like someone
who's speaking to a market that is
assuming his independence and his
credibility is a bit tarnished by what
happened through we'll call it the
interview process of all of this. So, I
think he's leaning into
that hawkish history that he's had, but
I think the market's really going to
still be
um believing that he will be more
um
dovish than what the rhetoric is and
what his history shows.
>> Yesterday Michael Cantapolus of Janney
Montgomery Scott and he said that he
could see actually a rate hike by the
end of this year just based on the fact
that financial conditions are incredibly
loose. It doesn't seem like people are
particularly concerned about the Fed
being overly tight right now and
inflation is still running significantly
above that 2% target for more than a
fifth straight year. So, how do you sort
of game out that likelihood or not in
your fixed income outlook? Yeah, and
again, I think the main thing for us is
that we do think you'll see inflation
begin to recede as we get to the second
half. We think that as long as energy
prices remain kind of below $100 a
barrel and that still is our forecast
that it will be below $100 a barrel,
inflation won't be the dynamic that is
continuing to accelerate and requiring a
hike. While at the same time, we do
think growth will be negatively impacted
by a couple of percentage points of GDP.
Unemployment may be steady to rise a bit
primarily because of the supply side
element of that. So, that's stress on
the consumer. We think begins to show
through in the economy and that's where
the Fed will begin to say, we don't need
to be 50 basis points above our neutral
rate, we can calibrate a bit. So, it's
not an aggressive cutting cycle by any
means, it's just the end of the cutting
cycle getting down to neutral that we
think kicks in by the end of the year.
Tony, this is going to be a very
high-profile hearing and the political
theater theater is going to be max
level, but from as a market participant,
do you think there's anything market
worthy that will come out of this?
Quite honestly, we don't. I mean, I
think there there would be potential for
that if he were to say begin to talk a
little bit more uh clearly to the
markets about maybe his views on say
balance sheet reduction, which he's
talked about, on his views about uh
where inflation is heading and why there
could either be further cuts or not. You
know, Mester has been quite clear in his
discussion why he thinks there shouldn't
be many cuts, whether you agree or
disagree with it. If he's clear, then
there could be some news, but from what
we've seen historically in a lot of
these confirmation hearings, they are
more about political theater than
answers.
>> So, unlikely. Right, so the chair they
often ask.
A great question for the chairman of the
Federal Reserve next week. Is above
target inflation a choice
at the Federal Reserve?
I'd actually like to hear Chairman
Powell's answer to that because in the
last news conference he was talking
about being surprised by supply-side
shocks that were kind of out of their
control.
I'd like his response to that next week.
Yeah, especially if ultimately a lot of
people say it is a choice and people
have said that they have not wanted to
torpedo the growth in the employment
market really and deliberately because
they saw the scarring that happened
after 2008 2009. They want to avoid
that. So, clearly they've prioritized
this. Question is, how do you codify it
and remain uh credible as an agency
that's still trying to target 2%?
>> not like the medicine. Let's put it that
way. Correct.
>> The chairman talked about that pain.
Remember the pain speech? We'll remember
that. We were in Jackson Hole at the
time when he was going through it. Then
we didn't see much pain, did we?
Subsequently in the years after. Which
again goes to the point of is any Fed in
the future willing to exert pain in
terms of torpedoing the labor market?
And is it worth it? Or should there be
an escalation of the range of potential
inflation targets to maybe between 2 and
3% rather than just have a 2% fixed
target?
>> Tony, enjoyed this. It's always good to
catch up with you, sir. Thank you. Tony
Rodriguez there of New Deal. Out of that
testimony from Kevin Warsh, the Fed
chair nominee later on this morning in
front of the Senate Banking Committee at
10:00 a.m. Eastern time. We've got a lot
of questions about policy, but our hopes
are pretty uh pretty low going into this
when when comes to the answers we might
get and the questions that will be
asked.
>> Even if he gives answers, even if he
gets to ask good [music] questions, will
people regard what he says with any
credibility given the fact that his
comments were actually noteworthy and
people are just like, "Yeah, that's what
he has to say."
>> I think some of that in the opening
testimony was fairly hawkish.
>> I agree. But when you start to think
about who it might be for [music] and
what purpose that is and then people
will interpret it like so many other
things right now in financial markets.
>> you know. Up next, Kenny Kaminski of
Alpha Simplex Group, Walt Lipsky of
LightShed Partners, Dana Peterson of the
Conference Board, Troy Gayeski of Future
Standard. [music] The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance next.
Markets are becoming a lot less
responsive to these headlines.
>> There is still a lot of hope and [music]
optimism in this market.
>> It was time for a bounce. There's a
broadening happening across markets. The
market is overexuberant in terms of a
fast fix to all of this.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
The opening bell 90 minutes away. Your
prices, [music]
your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 firmer by 4/10 of
1% on the Nasdaq up by 0.5. [music]
In the commodity market, Brent and WTI
slightly lower, down by let's call it a
quarter to a third of 1% going into
potential talks between the US and Iran.
[music]
The day ahead shaping up as follows.
Later this morning at 8:30 Eastern time,
US retail sales, a hearing for Kevin
Warsh, Fed chair nominee, later on at
10:00 a.m. Eastern time in front of the
Senate Banking Committee. Then after the
close, Bramo once for you, United
Airlines, Scott Kirby, reporting
earnings.
>> Yeah, to me, the airlines are the key
players in all of this. We talk about
the cognitive dissonance dissonance
between the markets and what we keep
hearing on the ground with respect to
commodity strategists and beyond.
[music]
The airlines bring that together. They
have to get jet fuel to go places like
the US to Europe and then back again. At
what point will they not be able to? At
what point are they seeing their jet
fuel costs [music] rise so much that the
likes of JetBlue have to say, well, at
least we're not considering bankruptcy.
This is a new paradigm and you're going
to start to see it in some of the
earnings.
>> It's another risk for the airlines and
at the moment, while in the United
States it does feel like we're a little
bit more insulated, in Europe the
situation's becoming dire once again.
Fatih Birol hitting the airwaves talking
about how the heat for him, this is the
worst energy shock he's seen and he has
said that Europe is just six weeks
[music] away from running out of jet
fuel. The same time the administration
is taking a very aggressive posture.
Just overnight, again, the US boarded
another Iranian-linked vessel in the
Indo-Pacific. All of this while
potentially we're supposed to have peace
talks tomorrow, a second round, but
right now neither delegation has left
their home state.
>> Perfect time to buy an airline. Looking
forward to catching up with Scott Kirby
in the next 24 hours. Lisa catching up
with the United Airlines boss. 9:15, I
believe, tomorrow morning. [music] Don't
miss that. Questions not just about this
energy shock, but also the potential for
a combination in the airline space.
Yeah, one which has been shrugged off at
least by American saying, we have no
intention of being purchased by United
nor would regulators sign off on it. Of
course, there were these rumors that
United was interested in doing [music]
so. Nonetheless, there are real
questions about the likes of Spirit now
asking for a government bailout. JetBlue
saying, well, at least we're not
declaring bankruptcy. Frontier, I mean,
all of these questions about what kind
[music] of con- consolidation we could
see that's very much ripe for the
taking.
>> Well, Reuters reported that he actually
floated this to Trump. So, you got to
find out from the CEO what the president
turned around and said. Was he Was he
maybe interested in this? He likes big
deals. [music] I'm sure he'll just, you
know, reveal all tomorrow. I'm sure
he'll engage in everything.
>> [laughter]
>> This is what I'd like and at what price.
>> Yes, exactly. I wish they [music] would
be that transparent, but I doubt we're
going to get that later on. No, but the
forward look though is going to be
really important, especially [music]
from some of these key players that have
to manage on the ground and not just
have the cognitive cognitive dissonance
that we all have.
>> United Airlines reporting later on this
afternoon after the closing bell. Lisa
Catching Up the CEO of the Bus, Scott
Kirby. Tomorrow morning at 9:15 Eastern
Time, right here on Bloomberg TV. Coming
up this hour, Kitty Kaminski of Alpha
Simplex with stocks trading near
all-time highs. Wolf Partrick of
Lightshed Partners on why it was time
for Tim Cook to step aside. And Troy
Gayeski of Future Standard looking ahead
to the Senate confirmation hearing for
Kevin Walsh. We begin this hour with
Stocks Etchechury ahead of potential
peace talks. Kitty Kaminski of Alpha
Simplex writing equity markets have been
trying to look past the current conflict
in Iran and find footing for recovery
from March. So far, this recovery has
been a fit of starts and stops. Kitty
joins us now for more. Kitty, good
morning. Good to see you. What have you
been more impressed  surprised
by, the rip-roaring rally in equities or
the stability in fixed income?
Well, I think I'd probably say the most
surprising is the equity moves in terms
of that you just you had a big reaction
on Friday, then you had negative news on
Monday and it was sort of ignored. Um
fixed income is a little bit of a
conundrum and and that's something I'm
quite interested in because you're
really balancing between inflation risk
potential and where does the Fed go? And
that is a little harder to sort of sort
out. Do you think there's some paralysis
in the bond market then?
Um I wouldn't say for me it's maybe not
paralysis. I think it's really trying to
understand what this inflation shock
means because we're so used to focusing
on Fed policy and Fed trajectory. We're
not used to sort of navigating what
inflation shocks mean for bonds. It
seems like no one's really thinking
about what an inflation shock like the
oil one would mean for equities either.
People are just buying and not thinking
again, in particular buying big tech.
Are you seeing an exhaustion of the
technicals under the hood when it comes
to some of the just buy the dip
knee-jerk reaction? Well, you have seen
I mean for us on the systematic space,
we have seen sort of a deleveraging, uh
getting out of equities, and now you're
seeing flow coming back in as those
signals are recalibrating. Um and so
you're seeing not just that hope, but
you're also seeing the potential push of
of market buying based on on technical
signals moving back into the market.
>> Where is it coming from? Uh and I ask
this because people are talking about
how a number of countries like the
Middle East have to retrench some of
their funding at some point to try to
invest in domestic concerns, especially
following the war. There's a an issue in
Europe of how much to invest
domestically with respect to the defense
sector and beyond.
Are you seeing any kind of
regional patterns in terms of where
capital is coming from?
Um that's a very good question. I don't
really think we have a view on that. Um
you do see that there is going to be
some differences based on which areas
have more energy dependence, and that is
sort of the theme that we've actually
been following a little bit more. It's
more the idea that you know, the US is a
little bit more sheltered from some of
this, although eventually we will see
that type of shock coming into
potentially disturbing growth. Inflation
has the ability to then disturb growth,
and then, of course, uh you have to
figure out how policy is going to
navigate that. As John or one of our
guests mentioned earlier in the program,
we're able to live with $80 oil in this
country.
Could we continue on this path with $100
oil?
Um I'd say, you know, that's where the
time horizon really matters. If you look
historically at how geopolitical risks
have affected oil prices and supply
shocks,
when the duration is long enough, that's
when you start to see the pain points. I
think we're kind of hoping that this is
the market's hoping that we can see
through this and that we'll have some
sort of resolution within the next
month. The reality may be very different
if we can't get to that resolution, and
then the impact of those inflation
shocks will be much worse.
>> I know, but it's the obvious follow-up.
What's long enough? It's almost 2
months. What's long enough? Well, I'm
I'm sure of course the 60-day deadlines
around 6 weeks or longer, um, you're
going to see after 60 days then you
start thinking about some of the
congressional issues related to that.
But I think at the point when you
actually start people seeing the pain
point, aka they want to buy a flight,
they want to do this and they can't, I
think that's when you're going to see
you actually start to see people react
when it hits them. Let's sink in Asia.
They're about to sink in Europe.
Which is the reason why people keep
saying from Europe and from Asia, what's
going on with the United States? I mean,
European officials were in Washington,
D.C. last week. They said, you know,
we're feeling terrible. We're looking
around, we're seeing the reality on the
ground. And then we talk to the
Americans, they're like, "Woohoo! This
is a great time."
>> Although it is showing up in the
polling. A lot of families are saying
about 2/3 of polling done by NBC over
the weekend that gas prices are becoming
a bigger financial strain on them and
their families right now. The S&P 500 is
not the economy. We've gone over this a
million times. It's anchored to so many
other different things. The big tech
companies are still going to spend
hundreds of billions of dollars. That's
going to support the stock market. We're
seeing that the AI ecosystem is taking
off. Hardware, you see that in South
Korea and other places as well. The
earning story, this is where things are
a little bit more nuanced for me. Do you
take comfort in the fact that earnings
revisions in the estimates for earnings
have improved through this war? Or do
you maybe take a little discomfort from
the idea that it's come from only a
handful of stocks? So, it's one of the
other and it's a difference of
perspective at least for me when it
comes to earnings and the outlook.
>> Yeah, is concentration risk a feature or
a bug? Because ultimately you've got a
number of very big companies that are
performing very well and delivering huge
profits. Is that a good thing? Well, in
times of stress, that's what supports
the United States. And in times of
weakness, people are saying, "Well,
that's a ballast." Because ultimately,
uh, at least you could depend on that.
So, it's sort of, uh, you know, heads
you win, tails you lose kind of
question. And, uh, people are really
depending on that concentration right
now. Catie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Catie Kaminsky there of
Alpha Simplex. You reckon the market
close to all-time highs, bouncing back
this morning by 4/10 of 1% with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara. Hi, John. We'd start with our
big corporate story, Apple naming a new
CEO. Hardware boss, John Ternus, will
replace Tim Cook on September 1st.
Ternus has led the hardware engineering
division since 2021, [music] and sources
say he's a strong believer in AI, where
Apple, of course, has struggled to make
an impact.
Spirit Airlines is considering offering
the US government an equity stake.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
discount airline is hoping to stave off
a potential liquidation. Any proposed
bailout is likely to get pushed back
from competitors.
And Kevin Warsh's confirmation hearing
is set for 10:00 a.m. this morning.
President Trump's pick to [music] be the
next Fed chair will face questions about
central bank independence and his rates
outlook. Lawmakers may also ask him
about his personal wealth, which of
course includes assets worth at least
$192 [music]
million.
That's Bloomberg brief, John. Yahara,
thank you. Thanks for the update. Up
next on the program, the morning calls,
plus Walt Piecyk of LightShed Partners
on why it was time for Tim Cook to step
aside. That conversation up next. Live
from New York City this [music] morning.
Good morning.
The writing was on the wall with with
Tim Cook at some point to have stepped
down. It did come sooner than we
anticipated. With that being said, you
kind of look at, you know,
where Apple is today and what they're
pivoting into. And And this is a
critical year in terms of the shift to
AI. I think it's the right move to hire
a product guy. I think it's also the the
right move to, you know, finally pivot
away from Tim Cook. Angelo Zino of CFRA
joining us a little bit earlier on as
Tim Cook steps aside. Equity futures
[snorts] okay, firmer by about a third
of 1% on the S&P and the Nasdaq 100 up
by 0.4.
The one stock in focus in our morning
calls, it's Apple. First up is Evercore
reiterating its outperform rating
following the CEO shakeup feeling
encouraged by the potential for new AI
features. Your second call from Morgan
Stanley maintaining [music] its
overweight view on the stock. The firm
noting near-term changes are unlikely.
>> [music]
>> And finally Wedbush reiterating its
outperform rating on the iPhone maker
highlighting growing pressure for a
successful AI strategy. Sticking with
Apple, Walt Piecyk of LightShed Partners
has been calling for a change at the top
of the iPhone maker for nearly a year.
The suggestion that like only Tim Cook
is the is the as the CEO to run this
company is crazy. You clearly need
someone that can move forward on a lot
of the product development. If they
don't have a succession in place today,
a CEO internal at the company that can
take over this company today, that in
and of itself is a failure of the CEO of
the company as well as the board. Walt
reacting to Cook's resignation writing
Apple has stumbled embarrassingly on AI.
This is clearly just a different skill
set and credit Cook for recognizing that
and stepping aside. Walt join us now for
more. Walt, welcome back and I messaged
you yesterday credit for making a call
12 months ago. Can we just reflect on
that briefly? Walt, how much heat did
you take when you published that almost
a year ago?
I mean I I took a lot of heat. I think
even from some of the some of the
experts on Bloomberg calling the call
blasphemous and how can you dare suggest
that Tim Cook should could step aside
even though we were going through this
monumental change in in AI. But that's
fine. I mean, you know, that's that's
part of that's part of the job. Uh and
the issue was never like, "Look, we've
recommended this stock in the past." Tim
Cook obviously did an excellent job and
and what they needed was someone that
could crank out volumes and make those
tweaks. You know, they they missed out
on some product cycles and there's some
growth issues like you have more
cyclical growth now at the company when
people need to upgrade uh iPhone. So,
the whole point of the call, you know,
last year was like, "Okay, you need it."
And by the way, at the time of the like,
"Who's going to replace him? Who's going
to replace him?" Like,
you know, like I Thanks for playing
those clips. Like, it's obvious. Like,
you you generate someone internally.
Like, and if you weren't, that shows a
massive failure at a company. So,
obviously the company didn't fail. They
have Turnus here. The stock's at, you
know, has done exceptionally well even
since um even since last year, but, you
know, you're you're facing existential
risks to the company as as many
companies are
um as we head into this AI era. Well,
let's just piece that together. You use
the word existential risk. Existential
risk. And yet, what I hear from a lot of
your peers this morning is continuity
and no near-term changes.
Do you think this is the right person?
I mean,
I hope there's going to be some
near-term changes in in the you know,
what's going on at the company because,
you know, they're clearly not on the
right path in terms of AI AI strategy. I
mean, I think, you know, a couple of
weeks ago or maybe a month ago when they
opened up who Siri can reference. And
can we all agree that Siri just is still
not good? I mean, we've been promised
Siri's going to get better and it's
still terrible relative to what you use
in any of the AI LLMs today in terms of
an audio
uh interface. But, a couple of months
ago, you know, they added, you know,
they opened it up cuz they only had
OpenAI before, right? Where Siri would
theoretically forward you to OpenAI, you
know, to to chat in in to get answers.
That implementation, anyone that tried
it, they realized that was not good. All
they're doing is adding additional LLMs.
That's not 4D chess.
People are calling that 4D chess. That's
not 4D chess. That's just adding another
LLM to a Siri.
Um that's just not good. So, I think
just because Turnus is taking over um
doesn't change things overnight. But,
hopefully
with a new CEO, he can change the
culture of the company and move in a
path that prepares them for what's about
to happen with AI. Walt, has the ship
already sailed? Is there a competitor in
the smartphone industry that already has
gotten an upper hand in deploying AI in
a better way than say Siri?
I mean, it's hard to know. We'll know in
a year or two whether the ship has
sailed. But, I mean every and I said
this back, you know, a year ago, every
day that they don't make a change
um is a day it's going to be harder for
them to catch up or potentially get
leapfrogged by someone. Obviously,
Google is the main major competitor in
the space. This is 50% of their revenue
is still alive. Phone services is still
relying on iPhones. Android is obviously
the major competitor.
The on the opposite side, their their
share has only gone up over the past
year. However, you know, we have this
new thing. You know, you have open claw
that has shown us what agentic can do.
This is a kind of a, you know, a nerdy
thing that people do, but it shows you
how close we're getting to agentic.
Anthropic and others will start
integrating this in. How we in How we
interface with our phones is likely to
change. When you go through trend major
technological transitions like that,
that's when industry leaders tend to
potentially lose share, right? Now, it
doesn't mean Apple can. Apple's in a
tremendous position to maintain that
share if they can execute on AI, but
everything that they've done up to this
point has just not delivered on any
promises or shown you some belief um
that they can continue to succeed in
this area. Well, they also have funneled
a lot of their free cash flow into share
buybacks and dividends. Going forward,
as an investor, would you rather see a
continuation a continuation of that type
of deployment of cash, or would you like
to see capital invested in, say, an
acquisition or a new initiative?
I mean, look, Apple's done a great job
without having to acquire a company that
the major acquisition they made was
Beats, which was what? Nothing in in in
today's dollar terms and and really
didn't change much um at the company.
The other thing that I think you're
referencing is spending the tens of
billions of dollars to build their own
models, which which again, that was the
4D chess everyone was talking about.
Like, so they have avoided that. That's
part of the reason the stock has done so
well, right? You know, all these
companies that have invested money
relative to Apple, who seems like, okay,
they've escaped having to invest that
money. The question is, is there going
to be repercussions for that in terms
of, you know, them not having a product
that consumers want or be positioned
where none of it may matter, right? It
just might not matter at all whether
they spend the money or not in that, you
know, if you're not using your phone
because your agent, wherever that agent
lives, is ordering your Uber, is
ordering your DoorDash, is doing all
these things for you, the way you the
way you interact with these phone, or
maybe it ends up being glasses or
pendants or whatever,
it just is going to change. So, whether
they invest the dollars in an LLM or
not, it it might not matter in terms of
what the important product is to Apple,
which is the iPhone, which represents
half of sales. Walt, hearing you speak
and looking through your research where
you say, are there core cultural issues
that need to be drastically changed the
company? Are people showing up to the
office 5 days a week? It sounds like
you're saying Apple's gone a bit soft.
I mean, look, you know, the product
development over the past 15 years, the
last big product categories that were
successful, at least, were, you know,
the Watch and AirPods. And these are
products of that of Jony Ive, who's no
longer at the company. And I think
there's been plenty of books written
about, you know, this this tenure and
and the need to look for innovation, but
just look at the lack of new product
categories. You've had categories that
they've attempted developing. Autonomous
cars are obviously going to be a huge
thing. There was a lot of dollars spent
in Apple. They went nowhere. Vision Pro
was kind of a you know, an effort in I
guess you would call it the immersive
metaverse and that was effectively a
flop. So, I think, you know, at the end
of the day like, you know, that's the
cultural change that you that I think
you need meaning a CEO that's getting
more involved with the product and the
software teams to get products into the
market. And maybe an overall culture at
the company to drive to innovation as
opposed to optimizing, you know, chips
you know, in the existing phones or you
know, moving the manufacturing to China
in order to get better margins or
tweaking up the price of an iPhone, you
know, just to generate some revenue
growth in a particular quarter. Can turn
this do that with of course
Tim Cook sticking around?
I mean, look, one of the knocks that
that people will say is like, oh, he's a
hardware person and AI is a software. I
don't think that's that's really the
issue. I mean, you have to be I think
product focused. I think he kind of
checks that box. Willing to work with
the team. I think he checks that box.
He's I mean, he's termed I think a nice
guy,
but I think, you know, perhaps more
involved with, you know, putting
pressure on teams to get things done.
So, sure, you know, he can he can be the
person, but you know, there's obviously
a risk. Like this is a mega company.
We've lived with with Tim Cook for 15
years. Who's done an exceptional job at
the skillset that was needed. So,
there's obviously risk. No one really
knows, you know, until you're seat. You
have the NFL draft coming up on
Thursday. You can pick what you think is
the top player, the top quarterback and
it could be a complete flop or the guy
can take you to the Super Bowl. So, you
know, we'll just have to see how that
plays out.
>> Well, I just wanted to finish on
something that I know is important to
you and to the team over at Lightshed.
I've known you a long time. I've never
gotten the impression that you are
willing to massage the message out of
fear of losing access to a management
team. I think that's really what
Lightshed is born out of. Together with
Rich Greenfield, your partner, who on
countless occasions upset Bob Iger over
at Disney by putting a sell on the stock
and communicating quite clearly what he
thought about the strategy and why he
thought it was failing. What What do you
think we can all do better?
Not just on this particular occasion,
but just for the whole industry. And I
don't just mean on the sell side, by the
way. I mean the media industry as well,
because I think many people in
journalism are guilty of the same thing.
What What do you think we can do better?
I mean, I get it. Like there's
definitely pressure for access, whether
you're a reporter or for an analyst. And
And there's value in in being able to
actually talk to these people directly,
but at the end of the day, you know,
truth is truth is what matters, whether
you're getting leaked some information
or not, you know, to you know, to have a
great story. You You still have to kind
of call out what the issues are in terms
of AI and whether there's change that's
needed. And And I don't know. Like it's
just It's just the way you I think the
way you approach it. You know, earlier
this week Last week you saw someone
interview uh Jensen from Nvidia, and I
thought it was very telling. And And the
interviewer did a I think a great job.
Now, maybe that that person, Dev Worr
Check I think his name is, will never
get another interview again um with
Nvidia, but like the value of that
interview and seeing what Jensen's views
were on, you know, how they dealt with
China, you know, what competition was
like, I think was was incredible. And
it, you know, it it helps us all to have
more of that. But you look, there's a
cost. There's clearly a cost um that we
see every day in dealing with this. But
always truth, John. Always truth. Well,
appreciate it and credit to you, Neil
Entertain What a Physic That of
Lightshed Partners. We've seen that a
few times, and we all get uncomfortable
when we feel like someone's massaging
the message to maintain access. mean
that everyone has a buy
buy rating on absolutely everything and
nobody has a sell. Right This is a
difficult moment especially because
there's a fear of group think and how
much are we all thinking in the same way
that AI is going to revolutionize
everything in a sort of unilateral way
that will lift most boats. Given how
much money is going into the space, that
is one fear that people keep
highlighting. You know, how do we pick
the winners and losers and are we
suffering a little bit from group think?
>> sense we're dancing around that tension
a little bit this morning as well
because at the same time everyone is
calling this a continuity candidate and
saying there will be no near-term
change. We're also talking about massive
change in this sector and breaking into
a new era of innovation. Isn't that a
failure to sit here and say we're
talking about continuity and no
near-term changes when we're going into
that? It's incredibly uncomfortable
because ultimately he cannot be a
continuity candidate because ultimately
continuity isn't going to meet the
moment which is going to be
revolutionary change. Nevertheless, he
has been at the company for 25 years and
understands the culture and is sort of
focused on the hardware. So, to the
degree that he has just been at the
company a long time, yes. Whether he can
actually revolutionize and bring the
company into the new era, that's really
what people are waiting to see. Stock is
down by a few tenths of 1% so far this
morning. Equity futures on the S&P 500
just pulling back from session highs.
Now up by only a third of 1%. Report
from Axios just moments ago that the
chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staffs
General Dan K. saying we are ready to
resume major combat operations [music]
against Iran in a moment's notice. That
coming from Axios just moments ago.
Setting the stage for potentially
[music] some tense talks. Retail sales
data up next. We'll have reaction for
you in just [music] a moment.
David Solomon, Goldman [music] Sachs, I
think this will resonate with many of
you. Recession risk could change only
one tweet away.
Kind of relevant to this morning and how
things are set up as well going in
potentially going into [music] talks a
little bit later with the US and Iran.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 firmer by
a third of 1% [music] on the S&P and the
Nasdaq up by 0.4. Retail sales data just
around the corner. Your bond market
shaping up as follows. Twos, 10s, and
30s [music] bond yields look like this.
Yields higher by single basis point on
10s, up two or three on twos. [music]
With your data, let's cross over to
Bloomberg's Enda Curran. Hey Enda.
Good morning, John. Just waiting for the
retail sales numbers here.
Uh and the headline number is up 1.7% to
1.4%.
That, of course, likely reflects a big
increase in gas prices. Um if you look
at the sales ex ex autos rising 1.9 to
1.4% and the control group is up 0.7% to
0.2. So, just going through the numbers,
John. The control group is the one that
we look at because the headline number
is impacted by higher gas prices. And of
course, we know car sales have been
stronger. So, it's getting a
sort of skewed effect because of what
happened in the month of March. But that
control group, which strips out gas
prices and cars and the like, that
increase in there 0.2 0.7% above
expectations, hinting perhaps at some of
uh residual strength from the tax
refunds. And of course, uh higher income
consumers also keeping things ticking
over there. So, better than estimated
for sure. Uh but also likely reflecting
some one-off uh
one-off impacts due to the tax refunds.
So, kind of a mixed story, I would say,
on the retail sales number so far.
>> So far, so good though. If you put it
all together, the totality of the data
is a surprise to the upside. Resilience?
I'd go one step further than that.
That's a decent upside surprise. Control
group coming in at 0.7, the estimate
0.2. Equity futures holding on to gains
higher by a third of 1% on the S&P up by
0.4 on the Nasdaq. If you turn to the
bond market, yields were higher by some
two to three basis points. Now three to
four on the front end of the curve. Twos
at 3.75 81, up two now. So, an
additional basis point higher on a
10-year to 4.2727.
That together with other data points as
well, Lisa, over the last several weeks,
the data has been better than expected.
Stay side.
>> Yeah, we've seen an incredible amounts
of surprises to the upside in terms of
economic data and it wasn't just that
the actual headline numbers came in
higher than expected. The actual
previous months was were were revised
upwards. So, you're getting not only a
sense that this past month, as we did
see gasoline prices increase, you saw
retail sales increase, but it actually
was off of it even warmer as retail
sales the previous month. Look, all of
this just points the idea that you're
getting upside surprises in an economy
that is supposedly being slowed down by
higher oil prices. Those messages are
uncomfortable to put together and just
highlight how difficult it's going to be
for the Federal Reserve to justify
cutting rates at a moment with inflation
and frankly evidence of strength in the
economy.
>> And there, I hope you're still there. I
want to come back to you. Just got a
quick follow up. The story that Kevin
Warsh has got to tell in front of the
Senate Banking Committee later on this
morning. Has he got a good story to tell
about the US economy?
I mean, it's complicated like you're
both just outlining, John. On the one
hand, we know his kind of backdrops to
getting the Fed chair job if he's
confirmed has been he sees a path to
lower interest rates. But, how is he
going to map out that path given, as you
said, economic data is holding up okay,
the employment market is is holding up
and of course now we have the Iran
energy shock complication as well. So,
on the one hand, he has to get across
the signal to the senators in the
audience listening today that he, you
know, he can maintain credibility. He
will do what's right for the economy
first, but also of course he's playing
to the political audience, the White
House, President Trump, of course
pressuring the Fed to bring down lower
interest rates and he'll have to give a
signal that he's open to doing that as
well. So, it's clearly going to be a
very tricky balancing act for him to
pull that off. And appreciate your time
as always, sir. Thank you. Enda Curran
there of Bloomberg down in Washington
breaking down the economic data.
Headline month-over-month coming in at
1.7%. The estimate was 1.4. If you strip
out autos and gas, that comes in at
0.6%. The estimate was still 0.3, so
it's an upside surprise. The retail
sales control group, important factor,
gets plugged into GDP, comes in at 0.7%.
that's an upside surprise relative to uh
an estimate of 0.2. And as you pointed
out better reads for the month
before as well, almost across the board.
This points to strength, especially
given the fact that when you strip out
autos and gas, you still see that better
than expected retail sales component. It
also speaks to what we hear from a lot
of different executives on corporate
calls. We hear about how the consumer is
still strong and still spending and
that's the reason why you're getting
these upside beats. So maybe the less
you know, or maybe this is what we have
to take away from what we're getting
from all of the earnings, which is
better than expected US economy that's
able to weather this particular oil
crisis.
>> times you use that phrase this morning?
>> to keep using it. I think it's
wonderful. Thank you Chris for
I think that was your fourth. I'm
counting.
>> Thank you. Keeping a tally over here.
>> Holding and holding an optimistic, just
right the bull market. That's going to
be very well for a long, long time. I'm
a rich. Let's do it. Alex Altman of
Barclays, I think put into perspective
last week. We were in DC and I was
struggling cuz what was going on? The
straight nothing has changed and he
said, look, it's really there's going to
be fits and starts on the way up or
down, but you have to decide
directionally are we moving upward or
downward? He said, it's upward.
>> Don't drown in the nuance. Dana Peterson
of the Conference Board joins us now for
more. Dana, welcome. Decent data. Retail
sales looks pretty robust. Have you got
confidence in the outlook for the
economy?
Well, honestly, that's all nominal data.
What happens when you fold in inflation?
Indeed, I I haven't seen the real data
in terms of the percent over percent
month over month percent change, but for
the most part consumers are shifting
their spending. They're not spending as
much on things that they want, it's more
on things that they need. And we
definitely need to strip out that
inflation. So, I think the US economy
will still do okay, but we're going to
grow at a slower pace. Again, because a
lot of the increases that you're seeing
on a nominal basis are due to prices.
Not only tariffs, but also the shock
from the oil prices, as well as the
pass-through to consumers for the supply
chain disruptions. Dana, let's sound the
consumer. You track confidence levels.
How big is the gap between what they say
and what they're doing?
Well, I don't think there's a a really
big gap. When we look at our own
consumer confidence measures, consumers
are saying, "Yes, we're still working."
And that's great, but we're not happy
about the inflation. We're not happy
about the fact that price levels are so
high, and now we're seeing them rise
even further. And so, our last measure
indicated that consumers are wary. But
again, as long as they're working, I
think they can make it through.
I'm looking right now at the breakdown
of the retail sales figure, and you can
see a 15.5%
increase in expenditures at gasoline
stations. That makes sense. It accounts
for the increase that we've seen in gas
prices. But you're also seeing a better
than expected read for furniture and
home purchases, up 2.2%.
Just start to wonder, Dana, is the read
through here that even though gasoline
prices has it have increased as much as
they have, people still have
discretionary spending to go out and to
and to put to work, especially at the
higher income that might be doing a lot
of the heavy lifting here?
There is some discretion. There is some
[clears throat] discretionary spending,
and I think a lot of it is happening
happening among those with higher
incomes. But again, these are nominal
numbers, and things like furniture are
going to be impacted if there are
tariffs on them. So, that's the price.
So, you have to strip out the pricing.
And what we're seeing is certainly in
the confidence measures, and even in the
hard data, is that consumers are
shifting what they are purchasing.
They're moving towards things that they
need rather than things that they want.
And if they do go after something they
want, they're doing it in a very
inexpensive way. So, I think that's
something material and something that
should be continued to watch. Dana, are
you seeing signs of scarring in pockets
of the overall consumer? Because the
overall average data doesn't suggest
that to be the case at all.
I don't think there's scarring. Again,
if we look back, you know, 2022, 2023,
we had much higher inflation than we do
now, but the key was that most people
were working and wages were averaging
above pre-pandemic levels. And that's
still true today. Most people are still
working. The unemployment rate's super
low. Jobless claims are infinit-
infinitesimal.
And so, that means that consumers do
have the bandwidth to work through the
inflation, but it doesn't mean that
they're not uh
kind of economizing. And we're seeing
that in our surveys. Dana, thanks for
weighing in and reacting to that
breaking news. Dana Peterson there at
the Conference Board on US retail sales.
That's probably the strongest
counterpoint to the inflationary fears
right now. The labor market is not as
tight as it was. Wage growth is
certainly not as hot. Consumers aren't
in a position to support those higher
prices in quite the same way. And the
reason why you haven't seen
the rate of wage inflation increase at
any kind of pace. In fact, it's actually
fallen to the lowest, I believe, since
2021. That said, I just don't see the
weakness in this data. The fact that
retail and food services increased 1.7%
in the March data versus 0.7% in the
March in the February data points to
people can still go out and spend money
and go to the bars and go to the clubs
and go to restaurants and and buy
clothes. I mean,
>> [laughter]
>> you know, you just wonder how much
>> I'm only laughing cuz is that what
you're doing with your with your extra
time and money?
>> absolutely no one around this table.
>> [laughter]
>> Right? Okay. All right. Going and buying
stuff and things.
>> I don't know what you're doing. All
right. But, look. Nice. [laughter]
Moving forward, it just points to
resilience. And you just wonder if it's
averages driven by top consumer. I'm
going to stop talking.
>> describing the life you want to have.
Yeah, 100%
>> We're We're manifesting right here.
>> aspirational. That 4:00 p.m. dinner
reservation. Yeah. Let's get you an
update on stories out there this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yohara has
more. Hi Yohara. Hi John. Recapping that
data we just got. US retail sales coming
in a tick above estimates at 1.7%.
[music] A big bump up from February's
figure. Excluding volatile auto and gas
categories, retail sales seeing a 1.9%
[music]
gain in March. The control group also
rising 7/10 of 1%. That was
>> [music]
>> half a percent above estimates.
US and Iranian negotiators are headed to
Islamabad for last-minute ceasefire
talks as a fragile 2-week truce nears
expiration. [music] Neither the US nor
Iran have confirmed the timing of talks.
US Joint Chiefs
>> [music]
>> of Staff Chair Dan Coats telling Axios,
"We quote We are ready to resume major
combat operations at a moment's notice."
And Senator Elizabeth Warren asking SEC
Chair [music] Paul Atkins to investigate
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. Warren
citing a media report that a broker for
Hegseth tried to purchase shares in
[music] a defense industry fund before
the Iran war. Atkins speaking now at the
Economic Club of Washington ahead of an
interview with Bloomberg's David
Rubenstein. You can watch that interview
on the terminal at live go. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yohara, thank
you. Thanks for this morning. Up next,
we'll catch up with Troy Teske, a future
standard looking ahead to the Senate
confirmation hearing for Kevin Warsh
plus Stanley Fischer. She's got your
morning movers. Shares of 3M sliding on
a sales growth miss. That stock is down
[music] 3%.
>> Tim Cook obviously did an excellent job
and and what they needed was someone
that could crank out volumes and make
those tweaks. You know, they they missed
out on some product cycles and there's
some growth issues. They're facing
existential [music] risks to the company
as as many companies are as we head into
this AI era. That was one of our biggest
light shed partners waking up the change
at the top of Apple, Tim Cook stepping
aside as of September. The new guy
stepping in and the new guy has got a
background in hardware. Lots of
questions about the continuity [music]
and the changes we can expect.
>> Yeah, is this going to be somebody who
is going to play it safe or [music] is
this going to be someone who's going to
come out with a foldable phone that can
also speak to you that can really
compete with the latest and greatest in
the AI universe.
>> want a foldable phone? I don't
understand it. I did a lot of research.
>> one over the weekend. My friend's mom
has one.
>> And? [music] It's Samsung.
It's I think it's like convenient
especially if you drop your phone and
it's foldable so you don't the glass
won't hit the floor. But I don't love
the crease then when you open it up. I
think it's annoying. And then to put in
your pocket it's really it's tinier but
it's [music] like thick. I don't think
it works.
>> Okay, we'll see if we get one. A sample.
More on Apple now. That and some other
morning movers, some single names are
Danny Burger. Hey Danny. Hey John, just
want to check on the price of Apple this
morning. It's not moving tremendously,
slightly weaker again [music] with that
news that Tim Cook will be stepping
aside uh come September. Uh Dan Ives of
Wedbush basically writing that the
timing will create questions even if
this move makes sense and it is big
shoes to fill so those are the results
there. Finally, some earnings that we're
looking at 3M among them missing on
sales even though their EPS beat.
They're still sticking by their full
year guidance, the CEO citing
geopolitical uncertainty. But it's also
a CEO that's been trying to right-size
the company, focus on core, spin off
[music] non-core assets. Still shares
down 3%. Surprising to the upside with
earnings though was UnitedHealth and
this stock has been beaten up over the
past year. But this time around, it beat
its earnings by the widest margin in 5
years. It upgrades its view [music] for
the entirety of the year. Medical costs
come down, so those shares up 7 and 1/3%
in the pre-market, John. [music] I tell
you, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Looking ahead to Danny's program
alongside Matt Miller in about 15
minutes time. Look out for that as they
count you down to the open and bell. As
we count you down to the cash open, this
is what you need to look ahead to at
8:30 Eastern time. Just 15 minutes ago,
we had retail sales coming in stronger
than expected. Looking for more data and
more earnings through the week [music]
and PMIs coming on Thursday. United
Airlines reporting after the closing
bell alongside Tesla and IMM IPM on a
Wednesday, so look out for that, too.
And then, the main event for many of us
today is the Kevin Warsh hearing
>> [music]
>> taking place down on Capitol Hill in
front of the Senate Banking Committee at
10:00 a.m. Eastern time. Mike McKee's
dropping by for a little bit more on
that. Mike, welcome to the program. So,
the president was speaking to the press
earlier on this morning. He was asked
about this, and I imagine this comment
and this response is not going to help
Kevin Warsh in front of the Senate
Banking Committee. He'd be disappointed
if the new Fed chair doesn't cut
interest rates.
Yes, and John, the question that he was
asked was, "Would you be disappointed if
he didn't cut interest rates
immediately?" And there's no prospect of
that given the way the economy is going
and, of course, given the way the war is
going at the moment. Now, Warsh is going
to address that elephant in the room
right off the top of his
uh opening remarks saying that uh it's
the president's uh opinion and it's not
something we have to worry about. He
says, "I do not believe the operational
independence of monetary policy is
particularly threatened when elected
officials, president, senators, or
members of the house state their views
on interest rates. Simply stated, Fed
independence is largely up to the Fed.
In other words, if we ignore what the
president or anyone else says and do
what's right for inflation, then we
won't have a problem." And he says,
"Inflation is their lodestar, and low
and stable inflation is the requirement
and he will pursue that. But there'll
still be questions about how and what
else he wants to do at the Fed including
going back to a scarce reserves regime.
That would create a lot of upset on Wall
Street. How would he manage that? What's
he going to do about shrinking the
balance sheet? Would he sell mortgage
bonds?
That Those are the sort of questions
that are going to preoccupy members of
the banking committee besides the
questions about Trump. Mike McKee with
the latest looking ahead to your
coverage throughout this morning. Mike
McKee on Capitol Hill this morning ahead
of that hearing. Troy Gayeski at Future
Standard writing Walsh is clearly going
to be in a tough spot for a while as the
ability to cut further will be somewhat
constrained. Troy joins us now for more.
Troy good morning to see you.
>> Good morning. Yeah.
>> What are you looking for in about an
hour from now? On Capitol Hill. Yeah, so
it's going to be more about the
articulation by Walsh about how he's
evolved from being a very hawkish fellow
to one that's much more dovish and then
how he's going to preserve Fed
independence while still being
responsive to the federal budget deficit
situation which you know can benefit
greatly from lower rates.
>> And that's a delicate balancing act. It
is. [clears throat]
>> do you think he'll be working with
Treasury?
Well, you know,
when you think about the harmony between
the two, right? And you think about the
continued path of rates falling in the
short end and his desire at least
historically to shrink the balance
sheet, you know, the Fed is back to
expanding their balance sheet now. It's
one of the reasons that money supply is
expanding again, one of the reasons
equities are going to be have been so
buoyant even through the war. So that is
a delicate balance for he and Basset to
get correct.
You know, the whole game plan for the
Fed the way we saw it last August and
September was for them to cut maybe more
aggressively than they had intended
caused in part by political pressure
from the president. Basset would issue
like crazy in the front end and starve
the back end of the supply. And if you
can move that front end down to 2% more
rapidly, then a four and a four four and
a quarter back end made made sense from
a yield curve steepness standpoint. You
know, our concern now is the longer the
Fed hangs out at three and a half, the
longer it takes them to cut, the more
likely you could have a nasty bear
steepener, which clearly isn't good for
equity multiples, for commercial real
estate equity,
uh you know, for mortgage refinancings,
all those things that are part of the
affordability agenda. So, when you want
to run an economy hot, one of the
ramifications can be a materially
steeper yield curve. This doesn't seem
like somebody who wants to run the
economy hot, just based on the testimony
that was released or at least the
political reported on talking about how
inflation is a choice, the Fed must take
responsibility for it. Why is the market
ignoring the fact that Kevin Warsh was a
hawk and still kind of sounds like a
hawk? Yeah, well, look, if you think of
the price of what was cut in or priced
in this year for cuts, right? Clearly,
there was around 100 at one point.
That's backed off substantially. You
know, it wasn't too long ago you guys
were on headlines about implied market
probabilities of the Fed hiking. So,
I think it's hard to argue that the
market's saying Warsh is going to get in
there and boom, we're going by 100 right
now. That being said, you know, if you
assume that productivity growth stays as
strong as it is and you assume that
there's continued disinflationary
pressure from technology, which is most
of the last 20 years, we know the labor
market's weak and substantially it's
still relatively strong, the consumer's
relatively strong. There is scope to cut
further. The debate, and no one knows
the answer, is what is the new neutral
rate? Is it two or is it three?
Economically, there isn't that big of a
difference between two or three. From an
inflation standpoint, there isn't that
big of a difference, but there's a heck
of a difference in servicing debt when
you're issuing two trillion per year.
So, you know, comments come and comments
go. It's going to be really key to watch
the action that takes place the first
three months in terms of building
consensus.
Uh should we go by how how fast, to what
degree, and how markets react to that.
Why do people still think that this is
relatively tight monetary policy given
the fact that monetary that that
financial conditions have eased
dramatically? The capital markets are
wide open, that the economy seems to be
chugging along, and that there are no
signs of constraint except for small
pockets that are affected by other
exogenous factors. Yeah, and to take it
even one further, you know, obviously
private credit's been in the headlines
quite a bit these days
courtesy of your esteemed institution.
And you know, if you think of floating
rate borrowers, they were one of the few
that actually suffered from tighter
policy, right? And what's happened, you
know, the last 18 months, 16 months is
interest expense has gone down by about
15%. So, that's one pocket that actually
benefits from that. Additionally, if you
look at
you know, maybe subprime borrowers or
those that are more rate sensitive at
the lower end consumer, they benefit
from lower rates. But your central point
is true, you know, financial conditions
are not overly tight. That being said,
it still has substantial savings for the
go-forward budget deficit situation if
we can issue very aggressively in the
front end and starve the back end of
supply. I think you can underestimate
the the importance of financial
conditions. We talked about this when
the shock first hit. The financial
markets can shape the events they
anticipate, not my line. We've talked
about that a million times. The fact
that financial conditions have eased
will support this economy
in a way that you want it and needed to
at a moment like this one because this
is a real economic shock and you will
see ripples in months to come.
>> Yeah, markets are doing the Fed's work
for it. The Fed doesn't have to cut
rates because essentially the market is
wide open and companies can still issue
debt. Question is just how much? It's a
bifurcated open market in terms of
welcoming any kind of high-quality,
well-heeled company, not necessarily
individuals that have fallen the other
end.
>> Troy Bremus right. Is this market just
open for massive hyperscalers issuing a
lot of debt? Is it just open for big
open AIs, Anthropic type companies to
come to market and IPO in a few months
or is it open to more than just that?
>> Yeah, it's a great point. So, one of the
things that you've written about, we've
discussed is, you know, the IPO market
has been relatively shut for
companies that aren't go-go growth or
hyper scalar. And, you know, that's one
of the reasons why it's been tougher for
large and mega cap PE firms to exit
their positions. You know, that are
growing at 3 to 8%. You know,
fortunately, we'd say, you know, in the
in the middle market, most of the exits
are to larger sponsors or to strategic
acquirers.
Um, if you look over on the private
credit side, you know, issuance was
very, very robust uh late last year.
That's certainly slowed down with the
the change in flows and the change in
insurance company appetite. Wider
spreads, right? Wider spreads, you tend
to have sponsors that sit back and wait
for conditions to ease to some extent.
Um, I I wouldn't say it's bifurcated,
but I think the market is getting more
discerning uh in terms of what it'll
finance in private credit and private
equity. And exits uh for large and mid
cap sponsors, you really need to see the
IPO market broaden, which could happen
if financial conditions ease further.
But, to your broader point, like they've
been easy for quite some time. I mean,
'22 was really the last period of
significant financial condition
tightening for most of the time period
other than liberation day and obviously
the war, it's been wide open for
anything that's high quality.
>> a massive worry we saw it repeat in '22.
Central banks hiking, simultaneous
sell-off in stocks and bonds. You saw it
for like a heartbeat. People started to
price in hikes, stocks and bonds sold
off. It's good news we haven't seen that
continue. Yeah, people will point to the
labor market, the fact that it just
isn't as tight as it was back then. The
fact that also we're not getting the
same degree of fiscal stimulus, even
though that we are getting some fiscal
stimulus. Ultimately though, we're going
to have to wait for the data. The data
so far, pretty good. At least according
to Yeah, I mean, honestly, people are
buying a lot of things, going out. Yeah,
and John, if I could jump in there one
second. Yeah, so I think, you know, the
there's confusion from time to time,
right? In that, you know, '22
was really a result of of three and a
few other necessary conditions for an
inflation surge. You know, one was we
printed 42% of money supply in air. You
know, two was we had two job openings
for an employed person and three we had
[music] 2.2 trillion of excess savings
that was being spent. So
>> a lot. Things have changed a lot, right?
Troy, it's good to see you. Thank you,
buddy. Troy Gayeski, a feature standard.
That testimony from Kevin Walsh about an
hour away [music] from New York City
this morning. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.